
EUROPEAN ELECTION 2024
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024 OF ALLIANCE GERMANY
SETTING BOUNDARIES EUROPE
RENEW.
CONTENTS
Chapter 1 - EUROPE
4
Chapter 6 - RURAL SPACE, AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL PROTECTION
56
A Europe that remains true to its fundamental values
6
Rural areas - Showing more appreciation for the countryside
58
A Europe with efficient and democratic structures
8
Agriculture - Revising European agricultural standards
58
A Europe that respects the principle of subsidiarity
9
Animal welfare - more animal welfare, more commitment
60
A Europe of transparency
10
Consumer protection - More transparency for consumers,
More protection against food fraud
62
Chapter 2 - DOMESTIC SECURITY, JUSTICE, IMMIGRATION AND ASYLUM
12
Internal security - Better networking in the interests of security
14
Chapter 7 - FOREIGN POLICY, DEFENSE AND DEVELOPMENT
63
Justice -For a Europe-wide independent judiciary
16
Foreign policy - The EU as a reliable and value-oriented partner
65
Immigration and asylum - clear rules and a separation
Defense - Ensuring European defense together
68
of immigration and asylum
16
Development -Making sustainable development possible
70
Chapter 3 - ENERGY, ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE
23
Chapter 8 - HEALTH, CARE AND SPORT
71
Energy -For sustainable energy concepts
25
Health -EU programs where they increase efficiency in the healthcare system
73
Environment - Giving greater priority to environmental policy
27
Care - More European cooperation in the field of care
76
Climate - Climate protection also works without bans
28
Sport - utilizing the integrative power of sport throughout Europe
77
Chapter 4 - CURRENCY, FINANCE, ECONOMY AND SOCIAL ISSUES
31
Chapter 9 - CULTURE, LANGUAGE AND SOCIETY
78
Currency - Ensuring currency stability without ifs and buts
32
Culture - Appreciating Europe's cultural diversity more
80
Finances -Yes to sound finances, no to European debt
36
Language - Preserving and promoting the languages of Europe
81
Economy - Forcing a return to a market economy
37
Society - no to social transformation from above, yes to the family
82
Social affairs -Social security must remain the responsibility of the member states
41
Digitalization - Digitalization as a challenge & opportunity
83
Chapter 5 - EDUCATION, SCIENCE, RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
42
Education - A holistic view of education
44
Science - Promoting scientific exchange and scientific talent
46
Research - Making Europe an international innovation spearhead
48
Technology - Promoting new technologies, taking risks seriously
51
For Alliance Germany, the European Union is an indispensable community of states, co- founded and co-shaped by Germany, in the sense of a Europe of nations in unity and diversity.
The Basic Law expressly calls for the creation of a united Europe. Germany has played and continues to play a decisive role in ensuring that this community has brought peace, freedom, democracy, security, prosperity, open borders and markets as well as broad human and scientific exchange to the people and states of Europe over many decades.
Alliance Germany stands by the European values, economic, financial and social order. Only a strong Europe that is accepted and actively shaped by its citizens, regions and member states can credibly represent their interests both internally and externally.
Based on Western values, the EU must serve the interests of its citizens, regions and Member States democratically, transparently, with lean structures and in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
To consolidate the credibility and efficiency of the EU, the sovereignty of the individual states must be strengthened again. The competences of the EU institutions must be limited to those tasks that can only be solved jointly by the EU member states, as provided for in the EU treaties.
EUROPEAN ELECTION
2024 EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024 ALLIANCE GERMANY
A EUROPE THAT REMAINS TRUE TO ITS FUNDAMENTAL VALUES
Remain committed in the future to the cultural heritage of the European nations and the Western value system, which is characterized by Christian- Western ethics and the Enlightenment
As a continent with a Christian and Western culture and history, Europe has a common supranational foundation of values.
Human dignity, the free development of personality, freedom of opinion, conscience, faith and religion, equal rights for men and women, the rule of law and other principles guaranteed in the German Basic Law, the European Convention on Human Rights and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights are its defining framework and must remain so.
The European Union as an alliance of sovereign states at the service of its citizens
Bündnis Deutschland sees the EU not as a federal state, but as a confederation of sovereign states whose development is the responsibility of the member states, i.e. in particular the voters and their parliaments.
The EU must remain committed to the vision of a "Europe of fatherlands and freedom", as called for by French Prime Minister Michel Debré back in 1959.
The EU Commission must follow the political guidelines of the Council, and thus of the Member States, and must not become independent or even a "super-government". The EU must not be overly bureaucratic in its requirements for its member states but, on the contrary, must support them pragmatically, flexibly and promptly as required.
A citizens' Europe must become more tangible for citizens. Bündnis Deutschland also hopes that this will increase voter turnout for the European elections. For example, a petition to the European Parliament must also be discussed in Parliament.
In our view, citizens of Member States should have the possibility of a qualified veto on decisions by Parliament and the Commission via the Committee of the Regions. A decision on this must be made swiftly.
The EU Parliament must become more democratic and more accountable. The European Anti-Fraud and Corruption Office must also take action against
EU officials without them being able to invoke political immunity in an abusive manner.
Consolidation takes precedence over EU expansion
Future enlargements of the EU must first take into account the EU's absorption capacity: Additional states may only be admitted if the internal functioning of the EU is ensured.
Candidate states (currently from South-Eastern or Eastern Europe) must fulfill all EU standards before joining - a legal matter of course that has been undermined too often so far.
First of all, the previous enlargements of the EU must be consolidated and their financing organized. For this reason, we do not see any possibility of new membership of the EU for the next ten years.
A EUROPE WITH EFFICIENT AND DEMOCRATIC STRUCTURES
The EU must cut back on its sprawling bureaucratic structures and learn to save on itself
The EU's decision-making and administrative structures must continue to develop in the direction of greater transparency, efficiency and democratic participation. The current trend towards ever more over-regulation, regulatory inefficiency, waste of resources and alienation from citizens must be stopped and reduced.
In addition to the central EU institutions (European Parliament, Council, Commission, European Court of Justice, Court of Auditors, European Central Bank), the existing three agencies for foreign and security policy, six executive agencies, three Euratom bodies and 35 decentralized agencies must not continue to grow but, on the contrary, must be gradually reduced and concentrated on necessary core tasks with real added value. It should be possible to close around a third of the agencies and special structures by around 2035.
The army of 60,000 EU civil servants must also not be allowed to continue to grow, but must be visibly reduced, by around 10% within the next EP legislative period and by a further 30% by 2035.
Future EU enlargements should also not lead to a permanent expansion of personnel or structures, but should take place within existing upper limits.
Abolish the second seat of the EU Parliament in Strasbourg
The European Parliament itself can contribute to a significant efficiency gain and achieve a savings effect by discontinuing its "traveling circus" Brussels-Strasbourg, which costs up to 150 million euros and a lot of energy every year.
As one of Parliament's main tasks is to monitor the Commission and Council, it should meet permanently at their headquarters in Brussels.
A EUROPE THAT RESPECTS THE PRINCIPLE OF SUBSIDIARITY
The EU must internalize the principle of subsidiarity
The EU must finally apply the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the Lisbon Treaty consistently, i.e. make as many centralized decisions as necessary and as few as possible: Higher state institutions may only intervene in a regulatory capacity if lower hierarchical levels or local authorities cannot manage a task on their own.
The decisions of nation states must be respected. Their sovereignty is and remains a valuable asset.
Curbing the EU's regulatory frenzy and leaving more room for national or regional regulations
The EU must rein in its overbearing regulatory frenzy and leave more room for national or regional regulations that take local customs and needs into account. Many people feel that regulations made at EU level are alien to their lives, that the scope of the regulations is excessive and that their implementation is too bureaucratic, as was recently demonstrated in the pandemic and migration crisis and in environmental and climate policy.
The credibility and efficiency of the EU require the dismantling of EU regulations that patronize citizens and are distant from the market economy, especially if they go beyond international world market regulations, such as product classification and product labelling ("material consumer protection"), measures to reduce CO2 emissions, etc.
B. expropriation-like building renovation regulations in the "Green Deal"), food standards above international standards ("consumer health protection") or restrictive pesticide, fertilizer and land use regulations for farmers ("environmental protection") .
All EU regulations, insofar as they are necessary under the principle of subsidiarity, must be realistic, proportionate, reasonable and affordable; they must also not place a greater burden on Germany than on other EU Member States.
Every new bureaucratic EU regulation must entail the deletion of two existing restrictive regulations. New legislation must be limited in time, evaluated and only extended if successful.
A EUROPE OF TRANSPARENCY
Make entries in the EU Transparency Register mandatory and expand the definition of lobby groups
Bündnis Deutschland is calling for the entry in the transparency register to be declared mandatory for the three institutions - the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission - and for the plans for the legislative footprint from 2011 to be implemented in the short term. With this legislative footprint, legislative texts will receive an attachment of all lobbyists with whom an MEP has had contact in the course of their work on a law.
In addition, the category of lobbyist groups must be defined more broadly: Associations of all kinds, companies, foundations, expert committees, contract lobbyists, lawyers, think tanks, non-governmental organizations, churches under public law, the press, employers' associations and trade unions must be included.
The Federal Republic of Germany should undertake to adopt this regulation accordingly. The EU member states are free to adopt it.
Report financial flows to NGOs separately
Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are dedicated to a wide range of social issues that are not (or cannot be) addressed by political or state actors and are an integral part of society. The results of their actions have a significant influence on democratic decisions, political and economic actors and therefore on all of our lives.
In times of increasing political influence on parliaments and legislation by NGOs, as well as the delegation of primarily governmental tasks to them and their involvement in shaping them, an opaque web of dependencies has emerged. The parliaments and institutions elected by citizens finance these organizations to a considerable extent from taxpayers' money.
Bündnis Deutschland demands the separate disclosure of the allocation of state funds to NGOs in each financial year. This concerns the three institutions European Parliament, Council and Commission. As part of this transparency offensive, NGOs will also be obliged to declare all their sources of funding annually.
The Federal Republic of Germany should undertake to adopt this regulation accordingly. The EU member states are free to adopt it.
The core task of any state authority is to protect its citizens. This applies all the more in today's world characterized by wars, conflicts, terrorism, extremism and natural disasters. Deeper EU-wide cooperation in police, customs and justice is necessary to enable all EU citizens to live in security and freedom.
We want to maintain the cohesion of society within the framework of our legal system and values, reform migration policy and at the same time ensure social acceptance for those genuinely in need of asylum and protection.
We advocate a transparent, sustainable immigration policy at EU and national level that guarantees political asylum (Article 16a of the Basic Law), complies with the commitments made in international agreements such as the Geneva Refugee Convention and offers economic migrants who have entered the country legally a perspective in the interests of the European economy and society (without a legal right to entry).
At the same time, the massive uncontrolled influx of non-EU citizens, which threatens the security, stability, finances and cohesion of European states, must be controlled and limited. The rising crime rate caused by immigrants must be curbed and immigration into our social systems and its exploitation must be prevented.
It is above all the influx of illegal immigrants - mostly abusing the right of asylum - that threatens our society, not the immigration of politically persecuted people and those in need.
We clearly reject illegal migration and a d v o c a t e the common protection of Europe's external borders. A preliminary procedure for checking immigrants is necessary at Europe's external borders in order to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons at an early stage, to relieve the burden on our municipalities and to prevent deportations that would otherwise be necessary.
EUROPEAN ELECTION
2024 EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024 ALLIANCE GERMANY
Germany and the other EU member states must not provide incentives for illegal migration and must work together in solidarity to protect the EU's external borders. Functioning procedures (best practice), such as in Denmark, should become the benchmark for the entire EU. There must be no room for ideology-driven watering down of the agreed measures.
Ultimately, consistent EU border protection enables better integration of legal immigrants and the prevention of abuse of the social systems as well as the formation of parallel societies, including criminal clan structures.
BETTER NETWORKING IN THE INTEREST OF SECURITY
Networking security authorities, facilitating cross-border police work
The internal security of EU member states must be promoted through better networking of security authorities. A Schengen area without permanent stationary border controls must not continue to encourage cross-border gang crime. This requires a considerable improvement in cross-border police and customs cooperation.
Terrorism - prevent, fight, punish
Terrorism threatens us internationally and nationally. European cooperation must be intensified and harmonized in order to counter this threat. The aim must be the consistent expulsion or deportation of people who are proven or almost certainly planning acts with an extremist background.
The examination of whether an immigrant is to be classified as a threat must already take place at Europe's external borders. Delinquent migrants must be sentenced as quickly as possible and deported immediately.
If immediate deportation is not possible, temporary admission to a state reception facility should take place with all legally possible measures. We are calling for the criminal justice system and the administration to be strengthened in order to speed up proceedings and take consistent action against criminals and dangerous individuals.
Enable internal border controls to protect against terrorism and illegal immigration
Threats from terrorism and illegal immigration as well as cross-border gang crime (human trafficking, smuggling/smuggling of human beings, illegal arms and drug trafficking, etc.) make consistent border controls at the EU's external borders absolutely essential in order to restore internal security.
Border controls need a uniform standard, based on the legal provisions of the Geneva Refugee Convention and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which successfully prevents abuse.
Until such a solution is found at Europe's external borders, controls must be reintroduced at Germany's national borders. Anyone wishing to enter as a refugee via the borders of neighboring European countries must be turned back.
Strengthening customs in line with the international model
Alliance Germany will strengthen customs and is in favor of bundling the enforcement areas of customs into a financial police force. This will enable the authority - in line with international standards - to track the flow of illegal money transactions more effectively and efficiently and carry out essential structural investigations in the area of organized crime to protect the European economy.
FOR A EUROPE-WIDE INDEPENDENT JUDICIARY
Guarantee the political independence of the German judiciary so that the German public prosecutor's office can issue European arrest warrants
Internal security and order require well-trained police forces on the one hand, but also an independent judiciary on the other. It is unacceptable that German public prosecutors are still bound by instructions today.
According to the ECJ, German public prosecutors are not allowed to issue European arrest warrants as there is "no sufficient guarantee of independence [of the judiciary] vis-à-vis the executive" in Germany (ECJ cases C-508/18, C-82/19 PPU, C-509/18).
The German Association of Judges also spoke out in favor of abolishing the power of the Minister of Justice to issue instructions to public prosecutors: "It should be a matter of course for Germany to comply with European judicial standards" and "It is currently unclear how Europe-wide searches can be implemented at all." In the interest of better cooperation between security authorities at European level, efforts should be made to ensure that all member states of the European Union, including Germany, comply with EU judicial standards.
CLEAR RULES AND A SEPARATION OF IMMIGRATION AND ASYLUM
Solving the migration issue on a pan-European basis
Europe and Germany have been the preferred destination for millions of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers every year, and not just since 2015. Our capacity to receive and integrate
The potential for migration is already clearly exhausted or overstretched in many places. This results in the need for a limiting and rule-based migration policy.
A coherent concept that is as EU-wide as possible and clear rules for limiting and managing migration and for dealing with the consequences for infrastructure and social cohesion must serve German and EU interests, naturally within the framework of the relevant national and international law.
Clearly separate asylum, flight and immigration
The continuing strong pressure of migration to Europe, and Germany in particular, must be channelled into regulated channels in the interests of social cohesion as well as in the interests of general legal certainty and financial viability.
Control under the rule of law and limiting immigration are important for social acceptance of foreign residents and thus for cohesion and social peace and for curbing extremist tendencies in politics and society.
A distinction must be made between asylum seekers, convention refugees, war and disaster refugees and economic migrants.
The skilled labor immigration law proposed by the traffic light coalition in June 2023 "Changing lanes", which creates the possibility of gaining access with an asylum application and then obtaining a right to stay as a "skilled worker" despite a rejected asylum application, is also the completely wrong signal in terms of European policy in this context and, in a Europe without internal borders, would have negative consequences beyond the borders of the Federal Republic of Germany. The EU must grant refuge to people who are demonstrably exposed to political persecution, temporarily, for as long as the emergency situation requires, with fair burden-sharing within the EU framework. This follows from the provisions of the Basic Law and the Geneva Refugee Convention, to which we are clearly committed.
However, the granting of asylum with the right of residence for politically persecuted persons requires that asylum seekers cooperate in the admission procedure, e.g. by disclosing their identity, and that they integrate into our legal system.
If they fail to do so, or even commit a crime, their right of residence and protection against refoulement must be revoked, as provided for in the Geneva Refugee Convention.
This must be distinguished from persons who would face serious harm if returned to their home country, for example due to an armed conflict there. According to EU Directive 2011/95, these persons are entitled to "subsidiary protection"; however, they are not covered by asylum law or the Geneva Refugee Convention.
In the interests of effective immigration control and EU burden-sharing, these people seeking protection must be subject to clear regulations, for example on residence restrictions and social benefits.
Immigration due to climate change or for economic reasons (economic migration), on the other hand, must be managed solely in the interests of the receiving countries, as there is no legal entitlement for immigrants to enter, remain or work in the EU.
Foreign skilled workers who are recruited in the interests of the German economy or, for example, the healthcare/nursing services within the framework of an immigration law with clear criteria are granted residence and work permits if there is a need for qualified immigrants who need to be qualified. Foreign skilled workers trained in Germany should be given preferential rights of residence.
If training positions cannot be filled in Germany, immigrants from non-EU countries should also be considered here. This ultimately promotes two goals: If the immigrant wishes to remain in Germany at the end of their training, we will have gained high-caliber young talent who will then contribute to the economic development of our country as skilled workers. However, if they return to their home country at the end of their training, we will have provided important development aid for that country through their training.
In addition, this exchange ensures that no illusions of a land of milk and honey arise, but that a realistic picture of and understanding for Europe also emerges abroad.
Germany and its EU partners must not provide incentives for illegal migration
Financial benefits to asylum seekers or other people in need who have entered the country should be replaced by benefits in kind as far as possible throughout Europe. Bündnis Deutschland would like to lead the way here with Germany. Immigrants must not be treated better than Germans or other EU citizens when it comes to social benefits.
The recognition of a person's asylum or refugee status must not be confused with a legal entitlement to an improvement in their own economic situation. This must also be reflected in the way in which state benefits are granted.
Benefits for migrants must also be harmonized in all member states. Refugees enjoy the protection and helpfulness of the European nations and have a fundamental obligation to reside within the EU.
Furthermore, the standards for the recognition of safe countries of origin should be measured against the living conditions in these countries of origin and not against European standards in order to prevent extraneous incentives. The classification as a war zone should be reviewed annually. Otherwise, return must be initiated.
Implementing effective border protection at European level
Germany, which as a country in the center of Europe - with the exception of entry via airports - is surrounded only by "safe third countries", has a responsibility to support the countries on the periphery of the EU in protecting the EU's external borders and controlling immigration.
In concrete terms, this means committing to a robust defence of the EU's external borders and supporting our partner countries particularly affected by migrant movements in guaranteeing legitimate applicants a swift procedure on the ground and appropriate distribution in order to quickly identify and reject applicants who wish to abuse asylum legislation, using coercive police measures if necessary.
We call for mandatory residence zones at EU borders and outside the EU under EU control, as set out in the negotiating position of the Council of the European Union on the Asylum Procedures Regulation at the beginning of June 2023. As deportations are de facto difficult and should be a last resort, the (preliminary) decision on admission must take place in these residence zones, naturally under humane conditions.
This must be accompanied by the principle that a decision on an asylum application is only to be made once in the EU, which must be made immediately upon reaching the first EU external border in such a residence zone. Onward travel to other EU countries with the aim of applying for asylum there must be prevented.
This is the only way to quickly help those who are truly entitled and to counteract the current practice that physical strength and the availability of financial resources de facto decide who is allowed to come and stay and who is not.
If the right to stay is refused or in the event of serious violations of the law, those affected must return to their country of origin immediately, if possible on the basis of readmission agreements with their home country or third countries. Undocumented applicants must always remain in a state reception center until their identity has been clarified; for the sake of good order, they must accept this appropriate temporary restriction on their freedom of movement.
Migrants intercepted or rescued on the high seas must be returned to their coasts of origin without exception in order to minimize incentives for life-threatening, illegal entry attempts by sea in the interest of the refugees.
In the case of sea rescue, it must always be examined to what extent it is really a matter of rescuing people from distress at sea or of aiding illegal entry into the EU disguised as "sea rescue" and thus aiding and abetting smuggling and trafficking in human beings.
Link development funds and visas to the willingness of the countries of origin to receive them
One deficit in the enforcement of a reasonable border regime throughout Europe is the slow return of asylum seekers who have been rejected under the rule of law to their home countries.
The EU must work to ensure that every country that receives development aid and/or visa facilitation also takes back its citizens if they cannot assert a legal right to enter the EU. Otherwise, the aid or facilitations must be canceled.
Fighting the global causes of flight
Germany and the EU should make every effort to help reduce or eliminate the causes of flight worldwide, for example through development cooperation, trade or economic promotion measures.
Alliance Germany is also committed to improving the environmental conditions in the main areas of origin of migrants so that people can stay in their home countries.
Immigration to the EU only on the basis of European values
The unconditional recognition of our fundamental values, such as full equality between men and women, the separation of state and religion (secularism), compulsory education and respect for different individual lifestyles, must be a basic condition for regular immigration into the European Union.
Cultural and religious customs that contradict our legal system or social order, such as the subordination of women, polygamy, veiling, forced and early marriage, circumcision of girls or women, so-called "honor killings", interference with compulsory education and Sharia rules, have no place in Europe. Anyone who demands this as an asylum seeker must return to their home country.
In addition to rights, immigrants also have duties here, above all full compliance with the law. Non-EU citizens who commit crimes must be deported immediately. Crimes committed by foreign family clans unwilling to integrate must be consistently prevented and punished throughout Europe.
Last but not least, it is the right of all European nations to manage immigration in such a way that a loss of European cultural identity due to immigration from other cultures can be ruled out. This is only possible if the immigration figures do not permanently exceed society's integration capacities.
Bündnis Deutschland wants the municipalities to have a greater say here. If the federal government does not reimburse the municipalities for the actual costs, it must look after asylum seekers and refugees in federal facilities.
EUROPEAN ELECTION
2024 EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024 ALLIANCE GERMANY
For an industrially highly developed and densely populated continent like Europe, energy policy is of central importance. A reliable, affordable and environmentally friendly energy supply is an indispensable basis for industrial competitiveness, the safeguarding of prosperity and thus the preservation of social peace in the European Union.
The political approaches of Bündnis Deutschland are reason-based and open to technology. We reject a fear-driven energy, environmental and climate policy.
ENERGY CONCEPTS
Ensuring a base-load capable energy supply
An industrially highly developed community of states
such as the EU requires a
The different types of energy generation must be objectively evaluated and prioritized according to the criteria of security of supply, self-sufficiency, costs and environmental protection. European energy policy must be geared towards these criteria alone.
As some European countries have very different geographical and geological conditions for the use of fossil and renewable energy generation, regional diversification of the energy supply plays an important role in ensuring security of supply.
The decommissioned German nuclear power plants must be put back into operation if this is technically and legally possible. Research in nuclear-specific scientific disciplines must be supported throughout Europe and restored in Germany in particular.
Research funding must also be made available for pan-European energy research programs. Particular attention must be paid to energy generation through nuclear fusion.
When it comes to environmental protection, keeping the air, soil and water clean, protecting natural areas and the recycling approach, together with the responsible use of natural raw materials, have top priority.
All measures must always be verified according to strict criteria in terms of their effectiveness and their contribution to achieving objectives. Citizens, industry and national economies have a right to expect that the measures adopted are appropriate and target- oriented and that the funds provided are used efficiently.
permanent base-load capable energy supply. Due to the daily and seasonal fluctuations in the available solar radiation and the available wind supply, solar and wind energy only have limited base load capability. This fact must be taken into account when planning the further expansion of renewable energies.
Fossil fuels diversify and secure the energy supply and should therefore be included in the energy mix. If the necessary fossil fuels cannot be produced in Europe itself, long- term supply contracts with more than one supplier should be sought in order to ensure a reliable and base-load-capable energy supply even in times of crisis.
Expanding low-CO2 energy supply through nuclear energy
In the context of the aforementioned diversification criteria, the expansion of nuclear energy as the form of energy generation with the highest energy density and the lowest land requirements is of paramount importance. Small Modular Reactor concepts may offer the possibility of realizing the necessary expansion of nuclear energy in a shorter period of time at lower investment costs.
Projects in the planning stage must be completed in accordance with uniform European safety standards. The decommissioned power plants in Germany, for which a recommissioning is technically and legally possible, must be put back into operation.
Strengthening research and European cooperation
Research into technologies to secure the energy supply and increase resource efficiency must be promoted throughout Europe. In order to ensure a secure supply of affordable energy for the population and the economy at all times, we are committed to the joint development of sustainable generation and storage technologies at EU level. In this way, an important pan-European contribution to prosperity and competitiveness can be made.
The prerequisite for this is the prioritization of research and development of an intelligent generation infrastructure (i.e. further developments and research in the areas of energy efficiency, control of volatile forms of generation, storage options, control in transmission and distribution grids).
The EU must take up new, cross-thematic and system-oriented research approaches in a corresponding energy research program. This is the only way to tap into additional potential for the innovation process along the entire value chain.
Holistic project funding can p r o v i d e a steering instrument that enables targeted political action. We therefore call for sufficient funds to be made available for European programs for the development of energy technologies.
Promptly expand participation in nuclear fusion research in Europe
Nuclear fusion has long nurtured hopes of a future with virtually unlimited energy availability, while at the same time posing only minimal risks to people and the environment.
However, high scientific and technological hurdles still need to be overcome in order to make nuclear fusion usable in practice. To this end, ongoing, long-term projects (national (Wendelstein 7-X in Greifswald) and international (ITER in France)) should be examined to determine whether Germany's participation could be expanded or further developed.
Some start-ups are trying to realize new concepts with regard to nuclear research at high financial risk. Such projects must be supported in Germany. Every single (qualified) failure is the basis for new findings and developments.
Germany should identify a site for a commercially viable fusion reactor in the next five years and have this site ready, together with financial support for a promising project.
It must be possible to realize a building without delay, without the often decades-long approval procedures preventing the connection to international progress.
Such a location would demonstrate Germany's long-term support for fusion technology.
giving greater importance to environmental policy
Sustainably protecting basic resources such as water and air
Air and water do not stop at borders and are essential goods that are worth protecting. The EU directives on soil, air and water quality are coherent overall and should be transposed into nationally adapted legal standards - if not already in place - and updated on an ongoing basis in line with the current state of knowledge.
No one should be excluded from access to water due to ownership or pricing. Bündnis Deutschland is committed to the effective and sustainable protection of these basic resources at EU level and in Germany.
Comply with environmental standards when expanding renewable energies
Care must be taken to ensure that applicable environmental standards are observed when promoting renewable energies (e.g. in the production, operation and disposal of energy storage systems, wind turbines and solar panels). Climate policy measures must not jeopardize animal welfare and environmental protection or reduce their importance.
In particular, greater political weight must be given to the protection of forests and wildlife as well as cultural landscapes and protected areas. Wind power development must not come at the cost of the loss of valuable natural areas. The protection of people must also be taken into account by limiting construction heights and distance rules.
Handling raw materials responsibly
Raw materials are finite. Renewable raw materials are also subject to limitations. Raw materials converted into consumer goods are often not recyclable and pollute and burden the environment. For these reasons, the responsible and resource-conserving use of raw materials is essential.
Wherever there are signs of technical feasibility and economic viability, recycling processes should be used in production and disposal. Their further technological development should be promoted.
CLIMATE PROTECTION ALSO WORKS WITHOUT BANS
No to the CO2 tax
With a share of 9.5%, Europe ranks third in global anthropogenic CO2 emissions after China (31%) and the USA (13.5%). The largest CO2 producers by sector are energy production, industry and transportation. It is important for economic development
It is equally counterproductive for Europe's environment and the climate if Brussels forces companies with unrealistic environmental requirements to relocate to countries with lower environmental standards.
In order not to overburden citizens and the economy as a whole, climate protection measures must combine maximum impact with the lowest possible implementation effort and running costs.
A purely European CO2 levy should be scrapped in this context; instead, efforts should be made to ensure that agreements are reached at international level that can be enforced in practice.
Bündnis Deutschland wants to renegotiate the EU's CO2 reduction plans. They are overburdening the German economy in particular and harming Germany. This goes hand in hand with the abolition of the planned European CO2 border adjustment mechanism (CBAM).
Realistic, albeit less ambitious, targets must have clear priority over agreements that strive for an ideal situation that lacks any practical feasibility. Effective limitation of global CO2 emissions is only possible through international cooperation.
Preventing a Europe-wide ban on combustion engines
Alliance Germany is committed to technological openness. A one-sided and blanket ban on technology must not and will not happen with us, especially as the production of e-fuels makes it possible to operate combustion engines in a largely climate-neutral way.
Similarly, we reject the expensive and inefficient subsidization of technologies such as electric vehicles, for which there are still considerable hurdles to widespread use, including the lack of charging infrastructure, recycling options for battery storage or safety risks in the event of a fire.
If technologies actually bring benefits for consumers and for society as a whole, they will prevail via the market economy; the state-orchestrated implementation of politically desired technological approaches is neither necessary nor sensible.
Open-ended research on climate change
It must be ensured that the universities and institutes working in the field of climate and climate impact research are able to conduct their research in an open-ended manner and without political influence or expectations. Due to the enormous political and economic impact of the scientific statements made there, this is particularly crucial in climate and climate impact research.
In particular, it must be possible to critically scrutinize scientific findings without social or professional sanctions and, if necessary, adapt them to the state of science and research without ideological blinkers. Dogmatism has no place in the sciences.
Place more emphasis on adapting to the consequences of climate change
Preparations for dealing with climate change must be stepped up. Taking into account the developments to date, it is likely that global warming will continue for the time being. The 1.5-degree target set out in the Paris Agreement can in fact be ruled out.
Accordingly, political measures must be taken now to mitigate the potential negative consequences of climate change as far as possible. This can be achieved by building and maintaining dykes and renaturalizing river courses, for example.
European afforestation with mixed forests must be promoted. The afforestation of mixed forests protects areas from erosion and landslides. It also binds CO2 and releases oxygen in a way that no technical process can do today.
EUROPEAN ELECTION
2024 EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024 ALLIANCE GERMANY
Bündnis Deutschland advocates that the member states should be allowed to shape their national economies and tax legislation as independently as possible.
In order to strengthen the European single market, the European Union, as a link between states, should strengthen trade and the economy and free it from bureaucracy as much as possible. We are opposed to over-regulation and the build-up of bureaucracy in the EU. The aim should be to make the European Economic Area as competitive as possible.
The euro has a central role to play as a common currency. It has been designed to ensure stability as the backbone of the European economic system. To this end, it is necessary to fully comply with the convergence criteria of the Maastricht Treaty within the framework of the Stability and Growth Pact. The subsidiarity principle of the European Union must be taken into account in all regulations, including in the areas of currency, finance, economy and social affairs.
ENSURING CURRENCY STABILITY WITHOUT IFS AND BUTS
Reforming the euro for success
Instead of introducing Eurobonds, which pave the way for a transfer union, we want a strong euro with full compliance with and enforcement of the Euro Stability Pact and the Maastricht convergence criteria.
The euro was introduced as a common currency to guarantee and promote European integration, peace and prosperity in the participating countries. It was promised to be a stable currency that would form the backbone for healthy economic growth and prosperity.
The decisions taken by the European Union in recent years, on the other hand, have destabilized the euro, particularly through the creation of large rescue packages in response to the unchecked indebtedness of individual EU member states.
We are of the opinion that government liabilities should be secured by higher equity ratios to prevent the debt spiral from spiraling out of control. It must be reviewed whether the system for determining the core capital ratio is still practicable today and whether the determination should be linked to the banks' total assets.
Government bonds are risky and must therefore be backed by an appropriate amount of equity, just like bonds issued by private issuers. The acquisition of government bonds by public bodies such as central banks or EU funds must be prevented.
Counteracting inflation
In recent years, inflation in Germany and Europe has been fueled by supply chain problems due to various corona lockdowns and the associated transport bottlenecks, by the war of aggression on Ukraine in violation of international law and by a misguided energy policy that has led to a massive increase in energy prices.
However, the main cause of the strong inflationary trends currently being observed is the massive expansion of the money supply by the European Central Bank over the last 15 years. During this period, the M3 money supply in the eurozone has more than doubled to 16 trillion euros.
The reason for this exorbitant rise was the lax interest rate policy of recent years and, above all, the purchase of government bonds by the European Central Bank in order to save highly indebted governments from national bankruptcy. The ECB has hardly or not at all fulfilled its actual task of monitoring and stabilizing the euro.
Bündnis Deutschland stands for a central bank that pursues an early and forward-looking interest rate policy and which, with capable staff and the necessary sensitivity, warns of existing risks in good time and can offer solutions.
The independence of the European Central Bank must be strengthened and its decisions must be protected from political influence.
It must be ensured that the ECB can fulfil its task of stabilizing the value of money instead of primarily providing the member states with cheap money.
Receive cash
Cash is lived data protection and individual freedom. That is why we advocate the preservation of cash as a means of payment and savings.
The current cash system works efficiently and reliably and meets the needs of citizens. Abolishing cash would create additional technological dependencies and could lead to an increased centralization of control over the monetary system, which is associated with considerable risks to privacy and individual freedom. Furthermore, there are considerable concerns regarding data protection and data security. This also applies to the current development of the EU asset register, which we clearly reject as an intrusive political measure.
In the discussion on the introduction of a cash ceiling in the European Union, Bündnis Deutschland has come to the conclusion, after weighing up liberal values and the extended possibilities for combating money laundering and illegal employment in Germany in particular, that it agrees to a cash ceiling of at least 15,000 euros in the eurozone. We are firmly opposed to a lower cash ceiling, as is currently being discussed.
No to the e-euro
We are generally in favor of the development of more modern payment methods and currencies. We reject the actual introduction of the e-euro, as the cost of introducing and monitoring the e-euro is disproportionate to the few advantages. We stand for a liberal financial policy, also with regard to the financial resources themselves. However, it must always be possible for companies to accept decentralized cryptocurrencies exclusively on a self-determined and voluntary basis. We reject compulsory payment.
However, cryptocurrencies are not suitable as legal tender due to their high volatility and lack of government control.
Evaluate and adapt TARGET2 system
The balances of the TARGET2 system (now T2) mean that the central banks of the states have receivables and liabilities with each other. Germany's TARGET2 receivables amount to over 1 trillion euros (as at July 2023). Meanwhile, Italy has accumulated liabilities of over 550 billion euros (as at July 2023).
In order to encourage the states of the European Union to accompany these liabilities and not to build them up further, an improvement in liquidity management must be created. The European Central Bank, which should monitor the TARGET2 system, must intervene more restrictively.
We also demand that the TARGET2 balances bear interest at a uniform rate so that outstanding amounts are treated as a loan. Furthermore, outstanding TARGET liabilities must be repaid by the respective nation state if they exceed the proportionality of its own assets. First-class collateralized government securities or gold may also be suitable for repayment.
In addition, the liabilities of a state must be capped on the basis of the respective financial situation, so that a liability amount that a state can in fact no longer repay is not accumulated in the first place.
Revise the ECB's representation system
We are committed to replacing the rotation principle in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank with a system that measures the effective voting weight of the eurozone countries primarily on the basis of their contributions to the European Union budget.
In our view, a new regulation is absolutely necessary here, as it is not acceptable that significantly smaller countries with significantly smaller budget contributions receive exactly the same voting rights as the largest EU contributor, Germany.
It is also important to prevent Europe's largest economy from completely losing its voting rights in ECB Governing Council meetings at certain times due to the rotation principle.
YES TO SOUND FINANCES, NO TO EUROPEAN DEBT
No joint borrowing, for a return to financial discipline
Bündnis Deutschland rejects any further communitization of debt by direct or indirect means. Instead of inventing further mechanisms that are directed against the contractual agreements at European level and thus break existing law, we demand that the criteria from the Maastricht Treaty and the Stability and Growth Pact be adhered to again in future without restrictions.
If a country violates these criteria over a longer period of time, for example five years, it should be possible for this country to be excluded from the monetary union. Following the model of a breathing monetary union, as once formulated by Wolfgang Schäuble, a country can leave the euro and re-enter at a later date if it demonstrably meets the necessary criteria again and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
Such an exclusion should enable a country to achieve the necessary criteria again, for example by devaluing its own currency. In such a case, the European Union should have plans in place to make an exclusion as easy as possible and at the same time prevent a fiscal imbalance from spreading to other eurozone countries.
No to the EU Finance Minister
Bündnis Deutschland consistently rejects the often-discussed introduction of a European Union finance minister. Budgetary law is a sovereign right of the national parliaments. Transferring this sovereign right to the EU would lead to a loss of national control over their own financial policy and would massively restrict their freedom to shape their own budgetary and tax policy.
We believe that the European Union is based on the principle of subsidiarity and solidarity between free and independent member states. The introduction of a European finance minister and an independent European budgetary policy would undermine this solidarity, which would lead to division between the member states.
Strengthening confidence in the eurozone countries
In order to strengthen confidence in the eurozone countries and to make the most important key figures transparent for all EU citizens, we propose that in future all member states of the monetary union should prepare their national budgets in accordance with the standards of double-entry bookkeeping.
These balance sheets are to be reviewed and certified by an independent body at European level.
PUSHING FOR A RETURN TO A MARKET ECONOMY
Scaling back rescue packages in favor of the market economy
The EU must promote a return to market economy principles. Emergency aid and bailouts were temporarily necessary, but have now been abandoned in favor of competition and a return to market economy principles.
The innovative strength of companies and founders must be reduced, also in the interests of sound finances.
There must be no development in which the European Community moves from one rescue package to the next. The aim must be to return to an economic cycle that is as subsidy-free as possible. The positive experiences that Germany has historically had with its social market economy should also benefit its European partner countries.
Expanding European trade routes
In terms of European trade routes, the north-south axis on Germany's eastern border must be expanded. This is the basis for a further economic upturn in south-eastern Europe (including Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovenia), for example in the tourism sector, which will also benefit Germany. The consequences of the division of Europe into Eastern and Western blocs must be eliminated by 1990.
The transport route system of the "German hub" must be supported by the EU with more funds - this applies in particular to the railways. Germany is overstretched here in terms of maintenance and expansion. More freight traffic must be shifted to rail - with positive effects on the climate too.
Ensuring the competitiveness of European companies
Prosperous companies are the prerequisite for high wages for employees and for the financing of state transfer payments. EU policy must create location factors so that European companies are internationally competitive, particularly with regard to administrative costs and access to capital.
Lending to companies must be based on economic criteria. Linking loans to ethical and ecological standards puts companies with traditional business models at an existential disadvantage in international competition. We stand for the abolition of such planned- economy regulations.
Legal requirements that overburden (small and medium-sized) companies should be abolished. Typical examples are the European Supply Chain Act, the CSR directives and CBAM. Bündnis Deutschland also o p p o s e s the planned ban on so-called "perpetuity chemicals PFAS", whose harmfulness is based on assumptions.
Reduce regulation in the financial sector to what is necessary
Following the financial crisis, there has been a significant expansion of regulation in the financial sector in Europe. Bündnis Deutschland believes that regulation is necessary and that the "free play of forces" must be subject to clear rules, especially in the financial sector. A crisis like that must not be allowed to happen again and private investors must know what they are getting into with which investments.
In contrast to other economic areas, however, Europe has once again clearly overstepped the mark and created significant overregulation. This over-regulation has developed into a significant competitive disadvantage for European banks. While banks in America are once again earning record sums, European banks are introducing one structural reform after another to ensure their profitability. In addition, private investors are being patronized, securities have to be checked for their target group and not everyone is allowed to buy every security.
This goes against the principle of personal responsibility, which is a valuable asset for Bündnis Deutschland. The high level of complexity in investment advice (see sustainability) increases the workload of banks, while on the other hand they are to be prohibited from disclosing income, so-called kickbacks, to customers.
In addition, any regulation that we introduce in Europe (financial transaction tax, ban on short selling), like other economic policy measures, will not improve the situation, but only shift the corresponding business to non-regulated foreign countries. The financial transaction tax in particular is a new juggernaut which, on the one hand, will cause considerable expense for the banks when it comes to levying it and, on the other hand, will not actually flush the hoped-for money into the state's coffers.
Once again, it is private investors who are actually affected, while the large companies (hedge funds), which are to be reprimanded as a result, are relocating their business to non-European countries. Bündnis Deutsch- land is in favor of slowing down computer trading - but this only makes sense if all non-European countries follow suit. Otherwise, this well-intentioned rule will put Europe's stock exchanges at a competitive disadvantage.
Bündnis Deutschland is therefore in favor of a review of the existing regulations in the financial sector and is calling for a clear assessment of the benefits and costs before additional rules are introduced.
Reforming the EU right of withdrawal in the interests of small companies
If a tradesman concludes an order outside his business premises, he must inform his customer of the right of withdrawal. Otherwise, the customer can cancel the order without having to pay for costs already incurred - even if the work has already been completed. The European Court of Justice has reaffirmed this in a ruling.
The right of withdrawal opened up by the EU directive places completely excessive bureaucratic demands on tradespeople and service providers. The right of withdrawal has been designed by the EU in such a way that there is a risk of withdrawal by the customer for almost every contract, even though the customer has received the service and thereby achieved an actual and financial advantage.
We call for a reform of the right of withdrawal (Consumer Rights Directive). We a d v o c a t e a return to consumer responsibility and greater legal certainty for tradespeople and service providers.
The principle that contracts must be adhered to has been undermined by completely excessive consumer protection. According to the EU directive, the withdrawal policy must be in writing.
We demand a reduction in bureaucracy and the reliability of contractual agreements. Empowered citizens and contract compliance are the cornerstones of a medium-sized economy.
SOCIAL SECURITY MUST REMAIN A MATTER FOR THE MEMBER STATES
No to EU unemployment insurance and EU pension insurance
Bündnis Deutschland rejects an EU unemployment insurance scheme and an EU pension insurance scheme, as a standardized Europe-wide social insurance scheme would lump together structurally very different labour markets and hitherto very different systems for financing old-age pensions to the detriment of all those involved.
With regard to unemployment insurance, it can be assumed that countries with low unemployment figures will be disproportionately called upon to finance weaker labor markets in other member states. Seasonal unemployment in the tourism sector in the Mediterranean countries, for example, would also have to be partially borne by the other member states.
In addition, the close integration of various social insurance schemes, such as unemployment insurance and pension insurance, argues against Europe-wide standardization. The social systems must be seen as a whole and cannot be regulated "slice by slice".
While an employee in Germany continues to pay into unemployment insurance until the age of 67, employees in other EU countries have long since retired at this age. This inevitably results in unequal treatment when it comes to the generation of the underlying financial resources.
The quality and effectiveness of existing European education programs must be continuously reviewed. European education initiatives are essential, not least in view of the ever-increasing shortage of skilled workers.
The English language should be taught in all schools throughout Europe at an early stage. However, in view of the shortage of skilled workers, Germany should also promote the learning of German in other European countries. Vocational training systems must be standardized. Efforts should be made to develop the German dual training system into a Europe-wide standard. In this context, the proportion of young people who complete training in other European countries must be increased.
The European Union can fully exploit its power when science and research network across Europe and take up projects that exceed the financial possibilities of the individual nation states. Partnerships between scientific institutions and the exchange of students as well as the granting of scholarships for STEM disciplines should be promoted.
EU research funding should be made less bureaucratic in order to speed up the application process, and the start-up culture should be promoted throughout Europe.
Research into future technologies must be coordinated, bundled and supported financially and in terms of personnel throughout Europe. This includes, in particular, aerospace technology, artificial intelligence, energy supply technology, especially nuclear fusion technology and the development of a European navigation system.
EUROPEAN ELECTION
2024 EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024 ALLIANCE GERMANY
A HOLISTIC VIEW OF EDUCATION
Intensifying European educational cooperation at a high level
EU funding programs such as the European Social Fund Plus (ESF+) and Erasmus+ have been and continue to be important pillars for education and training, the comprehensive promotion of skills and lifelong learning in Europe.
The funding and resources provided by the EU through Erasmus+ for individuals, organizations and educational policy reforms are already very high, whether for studies, training or the personal development of students, trainees and teachers abroad. This is generally to be welcomed. It is recommended that continuous evaluations be carried out to ensure that funds are allocated appropriately and that the desired quality is actually achieved.
Supporting educational cooperation in Europe in binational and collaborative formats with a focus on learning outcomes
To enable trainees and skilled workers to successfully navigate the European region and the labor markets relevant to them, it is important to develop and expand professional skills as well as technical, linguistic and intercultural competencies. To this end, we want to increase the proportion of young people who spend time abroad during their training.
Key elements for successful educational cooperation in the field of vocational education and training are the focus on learning outcomes (as an instrument for profiling and quality assurance for work-related exchange placements) and orientation towards the ECVET process (ECVET = European Credit System for Vocational Education and Training), which enables certification of the skills acquired (e.g. inclusion in Europass). Taking into account the use of these basic principles, it is important to further develop the proven credit and competence recording system so that new competences can also be acquired,
z. e.g. digital and data skills, can be considered in an integrated manner.
Promoting vocational education and training in Europe more intensively and holistically
Important initiatives have already been taken in the EU to support vocational education and training, and important principles and objectives have been formulated for the future of vocational education and training. However, in order to make a contribution to the promotion of qualified specialists to support the labor markets in Europe, it must not remain with principles and principles and rather nebulous program initiatives.
We need to arrive at an agile roadmap that successfully implements good concepts in the EU countries in a timely manner and at the same time takes new challenges - such as the serious changes in the world of work brought about by AI - into account.
In the area of vocational training, we are committed to supporting EU countries in implementing the dual system of vocational training, which has been very successful in Germany, if this is desired there. In this way, we would like to contribute to the standardization of vocational training systems in Europe, which has immense advantages for the mobility of skilled workers, among other things.
Target-oriented evaluation of the electronic EU adult education platform EPALE
The EPALE education platform set up for adult education in Europe has been consuming considerable financial resources for years, but it is not being used sufficiently. It must therefore be put to the test and comprehensively evaluated. A decision must then be made as to how the hoped-for goals can be achieved efficiently.
PROMOTING SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGE AND SCIENTIFIC TALENT
Intensifying the exchange of scientists in Europe
Germany can only succeed in international competition through joint research and development in Europe. Only in this way can Germany contribute to raising the overall position of the EU member states to a high level in terms of science. This applies in particular to projects that exceed the capabilities of a single country.
To this end, the exchange of scientists between research institutions, universities and companies must be facilitated and bureaucratic hurdles must finally be significantly reduced. Digital exchange between scientists and the temporary exchange of personnel are important. We attach great importance to ensuring that intellectual property rights are protected and copyrights remain untouched in such a European network for science and research.
Securing the transfer of scientific knowledge within the EU
The transfer of new scientific findings to the economy and society must be intensively promoted in Europe in general and in Germany in particular. To this end, regional and thematic cluster structures can be expanded and economic clout increased through stronger European networking.
New instruments must be developed and implemented in Europe in order to realize a better transfer of scientific findings at universities and research institutions into usable services and products.
We also call for the introduction of a high-quality European open access platform for scientific publications. This enables unrestricted access to scientific results and represents an important contribution to comprehensive transfer assurance.
Strengthening and expanding cooperation between universities and scientists in Europe
Bündnis Deutschland would like to achieve a new quality of scientific cooperation in Europe. To this end, German science and research organizations must work together to ensure that their activities are more closely networked with suitable players from the EU.
The mobility of German students and academics must be specifically promoted. The basis for this is the further development of the recognition system for academic achievements in Europe so that more students can gain study-related experience abroad. This can be done with the involvement of the German Academic Exchange Service and suitable foundations that promote Germany as a location for education and science as part of international university marketing.
Promoting scientific talent and practical partnerships in the STEM field
Alliance Germany aims to make Europe the leading continent in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). This objective is not only important for prosperity, but also for overcoming future challenges.
The proposal is to establish a European scholarship program for STEM students that rewards talent and commitment. The aim of this initiative is to create a generation of highly qualified specialists who can use their passion for science and technology for the benefit of society. In doing so, Germany could contribute the Highly Talented Students Support Program for Vocational Education and Training.
In addition, the promotion of partnerships between universities and technology companies must be intensified. These partnerships should ensure practical training and facilitate the transition from training to employment.
With these measures, Alliance Germany is pursuing the goal of bringing Europe to the forefront of technological innovation and strengthening the economy for the age of digitalization and AI.
Upgrading the German diploma
Bündnis Deutschland is committed to ensuring that, in addition to Bachelor's and Master's degrees, the tried and tested German diploma, which is valued worldwide, is permanently recognized and is also accepted as an academic qualification in other European countries.
MAKING EUROPE THE INTERNATIONAL INNOVATION SPEARHEAD
Intensify research for innovation
The next European framework program for research and innovation "Horizon Europe" must be provided with sufficient funding for the coming funding period 2025-2027. This is the only way to develop innovations in Europe through to commercial use.
Bündnis Deutschland expressly welcomes the involvement of German institutions and companies in this area so as not to lose touch and to generate new opportunities for the economy and society.
In order to be successful internationally again, we need to promote innovation. We can achieve this by initiating competitions for clusters of excellence or getting involved in European networks. This will enable us to regain a successful international presence in all lead markets.
Expanding research funding for SMEs in Europe
Small and medium-sized enterprises should be given greater, unbureaucratic access to funding for research and development. To this end, it is important to open up cooperation with universities and research institutions in Europe in a targeted manner. This will support technology-oriented innovation in Germany and at the same time intensify cooperation between companies in Europe.
Optimizing the organization of EU research funding
The economy and society are increasingly facing immense challenges that require the rapid implementation of innovative measures and initiatives based on sound research. In order to speed up the approval process for important research projects, we are committed to reducing bureaucracy in the application process for research funding. It must be ensured that research funding can be approved within around six months.
The administrative hurdles for European projects in particular are extremely high and almost impossible for applicants to overcome. Scientists are specialized experts with good ideas and concepts on which they should concentrate. Increased support from the approval and coordination bodies, such as the project management agencies, is therefore necessary for the time-consuming administrative tasks of project applications and financial management.
Ensuring a level playing field for basic research in the EU
Successful basic research often requires international cooperation, for example through the establishment of larger research networks. German research institutions are often unable to keep up with EU standards, for example due to high energy costs, bureaucratic requirements or ideologically motivated restrictions.
The aim here is to create a level playing field in Europe and to ensure that this is appropriate in international comparison and does not decouple Europe from international developments.
The following examples illustrate where to start: many large-scale research projects and
-Experiments such as those in high-energy physics or in materials or process research with synchrotron radiation sources as well as high-vacuum and X-ray devices require a large amount of electrical energy as they have to be operated continuously.
The affected research centers in Germany must therefore be supported in such a way that research remains possible without restrictions despite the high energy costs. Otherwise, the relevant research areas in Germany will be irretrievably lost.
Understanding the strategic role of aerospace research for Germany and Europe
Aerospace research plays an important strategic role for Germany as a business location. Self-determined, independent access to space is becoming increasingly important.
Aerospace research is also a cornerstone of European cooperation and a pioneer in the development and testing of new technologies. Technology transfer acts as a driver of innovation in other sectors of the economy. Germany should consistently develop its national funding structures and participate in new space research programs for Europe.
The mass transportation of smaller satellites, e.g. for navigation or communication purposes, has become increasingly important. Reusable systems can be used successfully and cost-effectively for this purpose. In order to become competitive within the EU, it is necessary to develop missile systems that can return to water and land multiple times.
Start-ups for the development of carrier systems with a lower load-bearing capacity should be supported. This would be an important, motivating impulse for training, research and technology in this future area. Suitable launch sites must be made available in Europe, including in Germany. Mobile platforms in the North Sea should be pursued.
The realization of the European Ariane 6 launcher is continually being delayed and is becoming more and more expensive. Due to the decision to discontinue the use of Ariane 5, the EU now lacks the corresponding transportation options into space. Dependence on transportation options provided by non-EU countries is not acceptable at any time.
Establishing an ambitious start-up culture in European research
Alliance Germany emphasizes the importance of big ambitions and risk-taking for a thriving startup culture that fully exploits its innovation potential. It is important that the EU supports a change in mentality throughout society that encourages budding entrepreneurs to pursue big ambitions. This is the only way to unleash entrepreneurial potential and fully promote innovation.
By supporting projects that promote startup culture and an open attitude in society, the EU can strengthen the entrepreneurial ecosystem in Europe and contribute to economic growth, job creation and a culture of progress and innovation. Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
PROMOTING NEW TECHNOLOGIES, TAKING RISKS SERIOUSLY
Develop a high-tech and innovation strategy for the EU and implement it promptly with "roadmap ping"
The successful use of innovative technologies requires a holistic high-tech and innovation strategy for Europe. It is important to integrate existing EU strategy developments in the digitalization and data environment in a timely manner. Only in this way can a holistic roadmapping be realized, taking into account the diverse megatrends and disruptive technological developments.
In cooperation with European partner countries, Germany must shape these future tasks in collaboration with science, society, business and politics. Above all, it is important to use trend and technology radars to focus on technological and social innovations and then initiate and implement application projects in a timely manner.
The aim must be to maintain our own technology platforms and production lines in the European alliance for key technologies and core competencies in the areas of energy supply, information and communication technology, digitalization, data and analytics as well as artificial intelligence (including machine learning), cyber security and quantum computing.
Establish technology clusters in Europe for technologies of global importance
We call for the formation of technology clusters in Europe that explicitly claim global significance and strengthen Europe in international comparison. Technology areas that open up a future-oriented application in nation states should be mentioned:
Seawater desalination, optimized production of green hydrogen and e-fuels, CO2 storage, use of geothermal energy, high-temperature superconductors for loss-free electricity transport, 3D printing of houses including thermal insulation and protection against natural disasters. Other examples include the development of new, environmentally friendly thermal insulation materials, e.g. based on aerogels, as well as intelligent window systems for heat regulation with integrated power generation.
Using intelligent technologies such as AI and machine learning (ML) as an opportunity
Artificial intelligence (AI) and other intelligent technologies - such as hyperautomation, robotic process automation and machine learning (ML) - are currently experiencing an immense surge in applications in almost all areas of life. AI and ML will bring about significant innovations in the coming years: examples include self-driving vehicles, chatbots in e-commerce and technologies in medical research.
The EU must face up to the opportunities and risks of these innovative developments by undertaking joint application-related efforts by science and research institutions to ensure that these innovative technologies are successfully anchored in the economy and society.
AI is being used to drive and accelerate innovation in various industries and areas. By using AI technologies, companies and organizations can improve their processes, develop new products and services and gain a competitive advantage. It is therefore imperative that we in Europe see developments in intelligent technologies that enable machines to perceive, understand, act and learn as an opportunity.
No frivolous bans or restrictions should be imposed here, such as the planned AI Act, which the EU Parliament has already initiated - this would quickly set Germany and Europe far behind in international comparison. Overregulation by the EU Parliament must be prevented so that the AI Act does not become a software act that would then regulate almost all software.
In view of the investments made by international competitors, including China and the USA, in the development of AI, international competitiveness must be maintained in order not to lose the market leadership that still exists in individual areas in the near future.
On the other hand, the emerging fields of application must also be accompanied and safeguarded by the EU in terms of ethics and data protection. Data protection is important, but must not hinder dynamic development in this area from the outset. Personal applications of AI for e.g. recruitment procedures, university admissions or applications for certificates must be subject to expert review. It must be ensured that a human decision-maker verifies and takes responsibility for such results.
Overall, the EU should therefore place particular emphasis on the development and promotion of data skills (so-called data literacy) among all age groups.
By establishing ethical guidelines and testing systems, artificial intelligence is to be further researched and promoted in order to serve the well-being of people.
However, the EU must refrain from establishing additional authorities and centers to promote and control innovation. A lean and open market gives innovation enough incentive to establish itself on the European market.
Evaluate application potential for quantum computing in a timely manner and promote its widespread use in the EU
Quantum computers make it possible to solve complicated problems incomparably faster than the fastest supercomputers. Applications can be found, for example, in cryptology, materials research and quantum chemistry, which is important for pharmaceutical research. Falling behind in this area would have fatal consequences for Europe's science and economy.
We expect university education in the field of quantum computing to be promoted in Germany and Europe. This is the only way to enable researchers to develop new chemicals and materials, for example for fuel cells, batteries and catalysts.
Driving forward European projects on navigation systems
The expansion of the European Galileo navigation system must be driven forward. Positioning and time determination with very high accuracy is the basis for high technology, e.g. for autonomous driving systems. This must be absolutely reliable and independent of other systems such as GPS, Glonass and Beidou, and must be available autonomously and fail-safe under European sovereignty. Europe must not be dependent on the satellite systems of other nations.
Reliable communication and a fail-safe Internet worldwide are fundamental to the survival of free, democratic states. The consequences of the failure of international fiber optic connections between the continents would no longer be controllable. Satellite-based systems must be available to at least partially compensate for a failure and make Europe less vulnerable. The technology for this must be developed and made available.
Promoting technology and innovation transfer
Bündnis Deutschland emphasizes the importance of technology transfer from universities and research centers to the economy for social progress and innovation. We see start-ups and innovation centers as key players for economic growth and job creation.
It is therefore essential to support researchers in founding technology companies in order to transform research results into useful products.
The EU should provide financial incentives, resources and advice to make it easier to start a business. Bureaucratic hurdles must be clearly reduced. Additional measures include the promotion of mentoring programs for collaboration between start-ups and established companies as well as investment in technology parks and innovation hubs as places for collaboration and innovation. Alliance Germany is determined to promote a strong technology ecosystem in order to establish Europe as a global leader in the technology industry.
Bündnis Deutschland is committed to strengthening rural areas. Europe's rural regions in particular are cultural pillars that deserve more appreciation and political attention for their contribution to our society.
In agriculture, care must be taken to ensure that legal standards - especially in the area of animal husbandry - apply throughout Europe so that they do not become a burden for our farmers. Products from non-EU countries must be priced accordingly in order to compensate for the competitive disadvantages of domestic products due to stricter requirements. Overall, care must be taken to ensure that EU requirements do not become an insurmountable hurdle, especially for small-scale agriculture. We reject a general obligation to set aside land or the extension of industry standards for emissions to the agricultural sector.
More must be done in the area of animal welfare and there must be greater commitment. Standards must rise in livestock farming, in animal testing and in the keeping of pets. It is important that animal welfare regulations are agreed at European level so that they remain economically viable.
EUROPEAN ELECTION
2024 EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024 ALLIANCE GERMANY
SHOW MORE APPRECIATION FOR THE LAND
Strengthening rural areas
Rural areas in particular are often neglected as a source of culture. Existing EU funding should be increasingly invested in agricultural areas with a low density of local public transport, healthcare and public maintenance services.
In peripheral locations, voluntary work and associations often play a key role. Without volunteer fire departments, many communities would be defenceless in the face of fire and natural disasters. Associations and voluntary work are also extremely important for local cohesion. The allocation of funding must also be based on this.
REVISING EUROPEAN AGRICULTURAL STANDARDS
EU agricultural subsidies awarded according to differentiated criteria
The practice of European subsidy policy indiscriminately favors farms with large areas of land. We call for subsidies to be awarded in future according to more differentiated criteria that also take into account the aspects of regionality, security of supply, regional identity and the positive environmental contributions of agriculture, without agricultural policy being understood unilaterally as part of environmental policy.
No to set-aside regulations for agriculture
Currently, one in ten people in the world suffers from hunger. The situation is particularly precarious in African countries.
At the same time, German farmers are to take 4% of their arable land out of production each year in future. According to the European "farm to fork" strategy, this set-aside area is to be increased to 10% in the coming years.
We reject the current version of the "EU Farm to Fork Strategy" as it jeopardizes the long-term supply of local food, will make a future-proof orientation of agriculture impossible and patronizes citizens in their nutritional behaviour.
These measures will further reduce the European Union's level of food self-sufficiency and increase dependence on further grain imports. The grain that we buy on the world market is therefore not available to the poorer countries of the global South and significantly exacerbates the hunger problem in these countries.
We as Alliance Germany have great confidence in our highly trained farmers. These farmers have always made a major contribution to environmental protection and, in particular, to biodiversity in our country. We therefore reject EU regulations that effectively force farmers to stop their work.
No further tightening of EU industrial emissions directives in agriculture
As a result of the tightening of the EU Industrial Emissions Directives, in the future, pig and poultry farms and, for the first time, cattle farms with more than 150 livestock units will also fall under the regulations of the directive.
Such an extension of directives, which are basically designed for industrial companies, leads to a high level of additional bureaucratic and financial expenditure for farmers.
Now that many farmers have recently converted their barns to improve animal welfare, farmers are once again incurring costs. Especially in a situation in which the costs for farms are rising sharply anyway (feed, energy, diesel, etc.), such decisions are an enormous burden.
Despite the justified interest in reducing emissions, the agricultural sector must not be pushed to the brink by political requirements; the capacity for further requirements has already been exceeded.
Alliance Germany calls for the inclusion of further agricultural businesses in the Industrial Emissions Directive to be stopped.
MORE ANIMAL WELFARE, MORE COMMITMENT
Enforce and monitor harmonized animal welfare standards at European level
Our animal welfare policy is based on a holistic vision that combines animal welfare, biodiversity conservation and raising awareness of animal welfare issues in society. We firmly believe that Europe can and should be at the forefront of animal welfare and are committed to achieving this goal.
An important area for this is the promotion of ethical practices in European agriculture and livestock farming. We are committed to ensuring that animals throughout Europe are kept under appropriate conditions and are protected from mistreatment. The long-term goal must be to phase out factory farming.
However, it is important to ensure that higher animal welfare standards do not force livestock farmers to choose between animal welfare and their own livelihood. Animal welfare cannot be enforced against agriculture, but only in harmony with it. We therefore advocate that high animal welfare standards apply uniformly throughout Europe.
In addition, all imported products must be priced in such a way that less stringent rules in other economic areas do not result in any competitive disadvantage for our domestic agriculture.
We also advocate the increased use of alternatives to animal testing in research, for example through simulations.
Another focus of our European animal welfare policy is the protection of endangered animal species and their habitats in Europe. The preservation of natural diversity on our continent is of great importance to us.
Educating and raising awareness of animal welfare issues among the European public is also important to us. We promote the responsible treatment of animals throughout Europe and support educational projects to raise awareness of this issue.
We are also committed to responsible pet ownership and the fight against cruelty to animals and illegal animal trade at European level. Bündnis Deutschland is therefore calling for the mandatory acquisition of certificates of competence for the keeping of exotic pets in order to ensure species-appropriate husbandry and the professional handling of these animals.
Furthermore, dangerous and endangered animals that are successfully bred in private ownership must have appropriate qualifications. These should be demanded and promoted with funds from the European Union, as pets are not just companions, but beloved family members who deserve our full attention and care.
MORE TRANSPARENCY CONSUMERS, MORE PROTECTION AGAINST FOOD FRAUD
Putting the responsible citizen at the center of consumer protection
Our consumer protection policy focuses on the responsible, informed citizen, who is free to choose the best offers for material and health consumer protection in a self-determined and ideology-free manner without European or state paternalism. The legal standardization of consumer protection rights must be strengthened in this direction.
Consumer protection rights in the online trade of goods, services and foodstuffs must be strengthened through extended legal and efficient IT-based regulations. To this end, the supervisory authorities must also be adequately staffed and technically equipped.
The increasing international food fraud caused by mislabeling, health-threatening substitute products as raw materials and illegal transport routes must be countered by decisive action on the part of customs and police authorities.
The labeling of food should ensure the supra-regional origin of the food, the distinctiveness of conventional, vegetarian and vegan foods and the labeling of artificially produced foods as a basis for consumers' decisions. The names of animal-based foods must not be falsified by inadmissible, ideology-based word formations, e.g. vegan sausage, oat drink, vegan fish fillet, etc.
EUROPEAN ELECTION
2024 EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024 ALLIANCE GERMANY
Alliance Germany is committed to a European foreign policy that takes account of German interests, based on the Basic Law, the UN Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights, embedded in the European security architecture. Our liberal way of life in Europe, our prosperity and our security are best guaranteed if our neighbors and partners are also doing well.
We rely on good relations with our neighbors and partners and the expansion of our common foreign, security and defense policy, within the framework of the EU, the Council of Europe, NATO, OSCE and beyond.
Alliance Germany believes that the principle of unanimity in existing sensitive areas (e.g. CFSP (Common Foreign and Security Policy), CSDP (Common Security and Defense Policy), taxes, admission of new member states) within the EU must remain in place. Any relaxation of the principle of unanimity would weaken the acceptance of the EU as a whole in the case of outvoted states and increase the power of the EU vis-à-vis the nation states too much.
The European states must increasingly be able to guarantee their national defense independently, even if the USA remains our most important ally. We want to become more European and remain transatlantic at the same time.
The EU should focus its development policy in particular on poverty reduction (including water, health, education), the advancement of women and environmental and climate protection.
THE EU AS A RELIABLE AND VALUE-ORIENTED PARTNER
Securing stability and peace - maintaining existing institutions and agreements
Alliance Germany advocates the preservation of existing international institutions and agreements at national and EU level that promote peaceful coexistence and the resolution of conflicts within and outside Europe (e.g. UN, Council of Europe, OSCE, arms control and CSBM agreements).
The EU must become capable of global politics and a reliable global player
The EU must sharpen its profile as a reliable, respected global player, as a resolute defender of fundamental democratic values in the global competition between systems, also with a view to current challenges such as sustainable security, environmental protection and climate change.
China, Russia, India, South Africa and Brazil (BRICS), Middle East countries and others are pushing forcefully onto the world stage. Only together do we have a chance of defending our values and our prosperity in global competition in the long term. The interests of around 450 million EU citizens must not be crushed between non-European power blocs. A neutral stance or an "ostrich policy" are not an option for us. Europe must therefore focus on its own strengths and build on them.
The EU's close relationship with the US remains of fundamental importance for the prosperity and security of both sides and must be maintained.
Lasting peaceful solutions for Europe
The EU's relationship with Russia must be characterized by vigilant realism and prudent openness. Since the attack on Ukraine in early 2022 at the latest, it has been clear that we have to organize our security without Russia for the time being.
The restoration of cooperative relations with Russia within the framework of a common security order in Europe presupposes Russia's return to the principles of the UN Charter, including respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states, and to the peaceful settlement of disputes. Russia has a responsibility - not least as a veto power on the UN Security Council - to put an end to its aggression and invasion without further ado.
Bündnis Deutschland's primary concern in the Ukraine conflict - as in general - is always the people directly affected. We therefore welcome the extensive humanitarian aid provided by Germany and the European Union (EU) for the Ukrainian population and the temporary admission of war refugees.
Based on Article 51 of the UN Charter, Ukraine has the right to defend its national sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognized borders. Based on the same provision, other countries have the right to provide it with appropriate support. Arms deliveries to Ukraine and other aid of a political, humanitarian, military and financial nature must be quantitatively and qualitatively designed in such a way that Ukraine can effectively defend itself against attacks.
Germany and the EU must work together with the US, the UK and other key players, such as NATO member Turkey, to achieve a balance of power and thus facilitate a ceasefire and negotiations on an equal footing to find a lasting peaceful solution.
Gradually becoming less dependent on China
Europe's relationship with China must take into account its new self-image as a world power with global leadership aspirations. China is becoming ever more aggressive externally and ever more repressive internally: repression by the party apparatus, threats against Taiwan, expansion in the South China Sea, restrictions on freedom of expression and freedom of movement.
rights in Hong Kong and the systematic human rights violations against the Uyghurs represent serious obstacles to rapprochement.
Economically, the EU, like Germany, must gradually become less dependent on China; in particular, we must protect our critical infrastructure and intellectual property from Beijing's well-known encroaching ambitions.
Strengthen and expand EU relations with countries such as Japan, India, South Korea, Indonesia, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Brazil
We want to further strengthen and expand EU relations with other important countries such as Japan, India, South Korea, Indonesia, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Brazil in our mutual interest.
Expanding rules-based free trade through further agreements
In trade policy, the EU must once again actively promote rules-based free trade, including the conclusion of further free trade agreements (most recently: with Japan, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, South America/Mercosur, etc.). However, European and German standards must be observed and must not be undermined.
To this end, the EU must counter protectionist tendencies and take a leading role in fair trade and investment agreements, while always safeguarding German and European security and property interests (sensitive infrastructure, brands, patents, etc.).
WORKING TOGETHER TO ENSURE EUROPEAN DEFENSE
Ensure European national defense increasingly independently, even if the USA is to remain our most important ally
The EU must increasingly take on the protection of its territory as its own task, even if the USA is to remain our most important ally. It is true that the overwhelming majority of EU member states are also NATO member states. Nevertheless, it is in the EU's interest that the EU member states can, in principle, defend EU territory without US support, which is currently not the case.
Germany in particular must do greater justice to its security responsibility for Europe as a leading nation, as is expected of us by our European and transatlantic partners, who for their part have been contributing to our protection for decades. Developments over the last 30 years have shown that there is no such thing as a "peace dividend" to be distributed in the form of social benefits.
Push European interoperability more strongly
Security risks of various kinds, the dynamics of global conflicts and geographical factors demand effective responses such as uniform, interchangeable weapons systems within the Alliance and, in general, a stronger push for European interoperability.
In this context, we also welcome the initiative launched by Germany to coordinate air defense across Europe (European Sky Shield Initiative, ESSI for short), which around twenty countries have joined so far, including neutral countries such as Austria (EU member) and Switzerland (non-EU member). European states are thus creating synergies step by step, both within and outside the EU and NATO, in order to be able to deal with threats in a coordinated manner in the interests of European interoperability.
Yes to NATO's northern enlargement
NATO's northern enlargement to include Finland and Sweden, which we welcome, will further strengthen the alliance. In addition to acceptable challenges, this step offers opportunities for Europe and NATO. Escalations in the global context must be prevented. Peacekeeping must be at the forefront.
Maintaining the common EU security and defense policy
The intergovernmental EU Common Security and Defense Policy (CSDP) as an integral part of the Common Security and Foreign Policy (CFSP) must remain an important pillar of our EU agenda.
The EU Defense Initiative for Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO - Permanent Structured Cooperation), which has been coordinating dozens of defence policy projects since 2017, should be further expanded.
Yes to European cooperation, no to a European army
We are critical of the idea of establishing a "European army". The costs would be enormous, the organization complex and the benefits, alongside NATO, minimal.
The concept of the "EU battle groups" as temporary multi-national formations of the EU crisis response forces, for example for UN missions, has proven its worth, as have the Eurocorps as a multi-national headquarters and the Franco-German brigade.
As the armed forces of the member states suffer from a maximum of inefficient and at the same time particularly expensive fragmentation, we want to further promote the expansion of such EU battle groups within the framework of European defense cooperation.
European inspiration for the resumption of basic military service
Only a well-positioned and trained reserve can guarantee the army's credible ability to grow in the event of tension and defense. Many European partners can present sensible models of basic military service geared towards national defense for reserve formation. Germany should adapt tried and tested concepts in line with requirements.
DEVELOPMENT POSSIBLE
Using EU development policy for sustainable development
EU development policy (Art. 21 I TEU) must focus on poverty reduction, the expansion of basic infrastructure (water, education and health), the advancement of women, sustainable economic development as well as environmental and climate protection. In accordance with the proven principle of "helping people to help themselves", all people worldwide should be helped to live in dignity by linking sustainable poverty reduction projects with economic, ecological and social development.
Such projects must be implemented by professional organizations, such as the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit or KfW, with transparent accounting. Budget support, i.e. direct financial allocations to governments in developing countries, should be avoided as a matter of principle in view of the considerable risk of misuse. Disaster aid should also always be provided via professional organizations (Red Cross, Caritas, THW, etc.). The cooperation and funding of NGOs must be monitored with regard to political influence and prevented if necessary.
EUROPEAN ELECTION
2024 EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024 ALLIANCE GERMANY
The European Union should decide as much as necessary and as little as possible centrally in the area of health policy - within the framework of the principle of subsidiarity.
The national level must have sole competence in areas of political action that can be meaningfully dealt with at national level. Centralized structures promote inefficient regulations and over-regulation and thus lead to even greater disenchantment with politics among citizens.
We therefore call for the responsibility for national health policy to remain in the parliaments of the respective EU member states. Responsibilities in the health sector must not be transferred to third parties such as NGOs or other private organizations. We strongly oppose a centralized and global health policy (e.g. by the WHO).
We reject the introduction of a digital vaccination certificate planned by the European Union, as this could have a negative impact on the civil liberties enshrined in the Basic Law.
Conversely, European cooperation should be expanded where it can be shaped in the interests of citizens and high-quality healthcare throughout Europe.
For example, cooperation in the area of joint evaluation of health technologies needs to be expanded in order to avoid repeating the same costly research activities many times over. The stockpiling of medicines and the expansion of production capacities to ensure effective healthcare provision in times of crisis, which can hardly be achieved by individual countries, is a task for which the European Union is predestined.
We are committed to ensuring that stricter uniform requirements apply, particularly in the area of animal husbandry, in order to put a stop to the further spread of antibiotic resistance across Europe. European data protection must also apply to highly sensitive health data in particular, unless patients explicitly consent to its use.
In the care sector, strengthening Europe-wide cooperation could be one way of tackling the persistent staff shortage.
In the field of sport, European funding models are worthy of support, provided they are not embedded in bureaucratic requirements and plans that inhibit rather than promote sporting activities.
EU PROGRAMS WHERE THEY INCREASE EFFICIENCY IN HEALTHCARE
Evaluating health technologies jointly at EU level
Bündnis Deutschland welcomes a strengthening of cooperation at EU level in the area of health technology assessment - as currently planned by the EU Commission - and proposes an expansion in terms of content.
This is because more and more people are placing their hopes in complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) when it comes to medicines, medical products and measures to prevent diseases as well as diagnostic and treatment procedures.
Bündnis Deutschland is therefore committed to ensuring that these services are also included in the procedures for evaluating health technologies. This will allow the benefits and harms of all available health technologies to be presented in an evidence-based manner for the benefit of patients.
Strategically stockpiling pharmaceuticals and producing them in the EU
The supply difficulties, including for medicines during the coronavirus pandemic, were a warning sign. Efforts must be made to ensure that a basic supply of critical medicines, food and consumer goods is guaranteed even in times of international crisis.
Alliance Germany calls for the safeguarding of supply chains through strategic stockpiling of medicines and more investment in the production of medicines in Europe. The internal market for medicines must be de-bureaucratized and digitalized in order to avoid supply bottlenecks. Overall, independence from imports from outside the EU must be increased.
Inexpensive medicines (e.g. generics) generally cover the supply, but innovative medicines and therapies are sometimes offered at extremely high prices. This overburdens even financially well-equipped healthcare systems such as the German healthcare system.
Bündnis Deutschland is therefore calling for cooperation at EU level on pricing and reimbursement policy and for the pharmaceutical industry and the state to be made responsible for ensuring that modern medicines remain affordable in the long term. This is not a matter of "de-economization", but rather of quickly removing bureaucratic hurdles and creating political and economic framework conditions that are conducive to innovation and investment.
Resolutely leading the fight against antibiotic resistance
Bündnis Deutschland pursues a precautionary approach in the fight against antibiotic resistance. On the one hand, we rely on the prudent use of antimicrobial agents in medicine and more restrictive use in agriculture, and on the other, we call for better infection prevention measures.
Various stakeholders must be made responsible for this: Every single EU citizen should be made aware of the problem (e.g. through campaigns as part of the European Antibiotic Awareness Day). Health and care facilities should guarantee hygiene measures based on best practice examples throughout. Practitioners and farmers should use antibiotics appropriately and according to the current state of knowledge.
With the "One Health Approach" of the German Antibiotic Resistance Strategy, the minimization concepts for the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry and the specifications on reserve antibiotics for exclusive use in humans must be consistently advanced in addition to the required measures in the health sector.
Research into the possible transfer of antibiotic resistance from animal husbandry and animal foodstuffs to humans must be significantly intensified.
We are also committed to supporting and expanding the development of new antibiotics and combinations of active substances.
Ensuring data security when collecting health data
Every EU citizen must always have control over their own health data (e.g. from electronic health records, registers, apps and medical devices). We call for an opt-in regulation (consent regulation) for both the primary use and the secondary use of health data.
Only with the consent of the person concerned can the data be passed on to healthcare professionals of their choice quickly and in a simple, transparent and common format as part of primary use.
If consent is given for secondary use, the data can be passed on to researchers and innovators, political decision-makers and regulatory authorities after anonymization.
Revocation (in full or in relation to individual elements, e.g. with regard to certain diagnoses and interventions or with regard to certain user groups) must be possible at any time in a straightforward and barrier-free manner.
MORE EUROPEAN COOPERATION IN THE FIELD OF CARE
Creating Europe-wide programs for young people with an interest in nursing professions
Care facilities are important social institutions that can enable people to live a dignified and comfortable life in their last phase of life. They should not be subject to the profit motive, but should serve the common good. This requires sufficient funding as well as a qualified and motivated workforce. This cannot be guaranteed in the event of permanent overload due to staff shortages.
Unfortunately, the shortage of qualified specialists will become even more acute in the coming years. One possible way to tackle this problem is to promote the immigration of workers from other European Union member states who are willing to work in the care sector.
This involves not only the recruitment of trained nursing staff, but also the integration of auxiliary staff who can work in areas such as the kitchen and housekeeping. These assistants could relieve the burden on nursing staff by taking over routine tasks, thus allowing them to spend more time caring for patients.
It must be a task of the European Union to explore possible capacities here as part of a Europe-wide care plan and to make these available to member states with corresponding needs.
However, Europe must also be open to qualified nurses from other parts of the world and support them with language training in their own country for deployment in EU member states.
USING THE INTEGRATIVE 
THROUGHOUT EUROPE
Maintaining sports promotion programs at European level
The EU should continue to promote sporting events at grassroots level through a simplified form of financial support, e.g. through existing programs such as Erasmus+. In any case, it makes sense for the respective sports associations to exchange experiences in order to learn from each other and improve their own structures.
No to a bureaucratic European sports model
We reject the standardization of a European sports model. Money should flow into sport and not into additional bureaucratic requirements that hinder the actual running of sport.
Our image of humanity is that of a free and self-reliant person who can build his or her life on the basis of proven cultural patterns, knowledge and traditions. We therefore oppose all attempts to devalue or even deny the foundations of human identity, be it the region, the country, the common cultural heritage or gender.
Bonding with others - whether in the family, among friends or in the home environment - strengthens people's satisfaction, joie de vivre and resilience. Politics should promote bonds between people and not hinder them. People's involvement in communities and institutions - for example in the family, the church, the volunteer fire department, a sports club or a political party - has an intrinsic moral value.
Such commitment is conducive to Europe's prosperity. However, it also promotes and stabilizes the well-being of the individual, who is enriched by others in their various roles and enriches others. Volunteering thus prevents the increasing isolation of people and the associated increase in mental illnesses.
We recognize rural areas as cultural assets and want to further strengthen their quality of life. The preservation of our formative cultural landscapes is of great importance to us. Bündnis Deutschland would like to promote the natural interdependence of our towns and villages with their rural environment and also steer the construction of suburban belts according to this criterion.
Culture is created anew every day - we promote this. Culture is also lost every day - we slow that down. We stand for diversity instead of ideological simplicity.
EUROPEAN ELECTION
2024 EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024 ALLIANCE GERMANY
VALUING EUROPE'S CULTURAL DIVERSITY MORE
Promoting regional architectural styles
The appearance of cities around the world is currently being harmonized by concrete buildings. Bündnis Deutschland would also like to breathe new life into the cultural diversity of our continent in construction.
We therefore advocate the promotion of regional architectural styles. As a result, Brussels funding should in future be used preferentially for construction projects that fit in with the local appearance and regional architectural tradition. In this way, Europe will remain diverse, varied and worth living in.
Promoting regional media offerings - ensuring diversity of opinion
We consider diversity of opinion in the Member States to be a valuable asset. The countless private regional press products and radio and television stations make an elementary contribution to this. The survival of these offerings is desirable in terms of pluralism of opinion in our democracy. We therefore want to encourage the member states of the European Union in Brussels to improve the tax position of regional media providers.
PRESERVING AND PROMOTING THE LANGUAGES OF EUROPE
Extend foreign language teaching to at least two languages including English
The mastery of languages is a basic prerequisite for cultural and human exchange. We support the EU language policy as a direct expression of the friendly relationship between the peoples of Europe. Foreign language teaching is an important part of education in order to open up new horizons for young people.
It must not (only) be about the direct economic benefit; the exchange between cultures must remain a central aspect of foreign language teaching. For this reason, we advocate that foreign language teaching throughout Europe should not be limited to English alone, but should include at least one other European language.
Preserving European regional languages, supporting linguistic minorities
We also support measures aimed at preserving and passing on the numerous European regional languages, such as Sorbian and Danish in Germany. We are particularly in favor of promoting the German language among the German-speaking minorities in neighboring European countries, such as Poland, Romania and Belgium.
The European Union should work to ensure that the Member States take their obligation to preserve such regional languages seriously and that they do not fall victim to linguistic centralist tendencies.
NO TO SOCIAL TRANSFORMATION FROM ABOVE, YES TO THE FAMILY
Stop EU plans for the EU Parental Certificate
A family traditionally consists of a father, mother and children. Women and men each bring individual gender-specific aspects to parenting that complement each other.
Families are the nucleus of our society and the state is committed to actively protecting and promoting them.
People are communal beings for whom the family forms a firm anchor in the stages of their lives, from birth, through school, working life and starting their own family, to retirement and the end of their lives.
We are clearly opposed to the EU's current plans to introduce a parenthood certificate. Such a certificate is intended to force EU member states to accept the socio-political ideas prevailing in other EU countries and to implement them within the framework of national administration.
We reject the transformation of social realities by EU bureaucracy and thus bypassing democratic processes.
DIGITALIZATION AS A CHALLENGE & OPPORTUNITY
Digitalization as a challenge
The digitalization of society enables more efficient and user-friendly processes. In addition, internet users have almost unlimited opportunities for information and participation. At the same time, however, digitalization also presents us with major ethical challenges that are being neglected in the current debate.
In this and recent years alone, several administrative processes relating to digitization have been massively advanced at European and national level, mostly without sufficient discussion in society and the media: the European digital identity, the digital euro, the digital medical record, the digital vaccination certificate.
Immediate consequential problems of these measures arise in the area of data protection. The rampant collection of personal data is accompanied by an expansion of state control and access options. There is a threat of the transparent individual.
The issue of social participation is also affected by digitalization. It is important - not only for older people - to enable spaces for personal encounters. We all know that digital video conferencing cannot replace a real conversation. We firmly believe that public administration, healthcare, education and all other areas of human life require physical encounters. On the one hand for reasons of inclusion and participation, and on the other to limit state control options and safeguard civil privacy.
There are also other aspects: The omnipresence of search engines, social media and artificial intelligence not only leads to dependencies and even addiction, but also demonstrably inhibits social behavior, curiosity and creativity. All characteristics that make us human in the first place!
The human social being must not be understood exclusively as a digital entity. If humanity slams the door on the analog world, there may be no turning back.
Digital offerings such as social media, video games or the recently propagated meta- verse are not bad per se. However, they are also not, as their proponents would have us believe, good per se and beneficial for humanity. The aim cannot be to make us dependent on digital systems. Instead, we need to actively shape this process. The focus must be on people as social beings.
Bündnis Deutschland is therefore calling for a "right to digital self-determination". Essentially, it is about preventing the analog reality from being pulled out from under the feet of human life. Progressive and fundamentally helpful digitalization must not lead to a loss of humanity. If we do not face up to this problem, it will have grave consequences for our social coexistence and democracy as a whole.
Under no circumstances should we allow ourselves to be degraded to digital objects and become dependent on digital corporations that pursue their power and business interests.
In addition, the state, with its bureaucratic administrative processes, must not be tempted into control mechanisms that appear "efficient" on the surface but actually restrict the freedom of citizens.
Digitalization as an opportunity
Digitalization has brought about major changes worldwide in recent years and influences almost all aspects of our social lives. In this context, the role of citizens plays a key role.
In order to fully exploit the benefits of digitalization and at the same time overcome potential challenges, it is essential that citizens are trained and open to digitalization.
Germany must develop into a leading digital metropolis and this will only succeed if citizens are placed at the center of the digitalization strategy. This includes training programs that enable citizens to learn and use digital skills. These training courses are far- reaching and cover all age groups, from young children to senior citizens, and are offered both in schools and in community centers.
Only by involving citizens in our country's digitalization strategy can Germany create an open- minded citizenry that actively supports digital progress and preserves its own digital sovereignty. Whether we like it or not, the digitalization of the world is happening and if we do not actively shape it, Germany will be the loser.
 NOTES
EUROPEAN ELECTION
2024 EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024 ALLIANCE GERMANY
. BUNDNIS
: *: DEUTSCHLAND




Program for the 2024 European elections
Preamble
An independent Europe of sovereign democracies - peaceful and just!
The world around us is in the stranglehold of war and violence. We are living in a time of the most, most intense and longest-lasting armed conflicts since the end of the Cold War. More and more attempts are being made to resolve conflicts through armed violence or the threat of violence. Global military spending has more than doubled since 1990 and continues to rise - especially in the countries of the European Union.
Europe is surrounded and affected by numerous armed conflicts. For two years now, the largest and most dangerous war on European soil since the Second World War has been raging in Ukraine. In a world of violence and the threat of a new bloc confrontation, Europe will be the loser due to its geographic location and its dependence on raw materials, energy sources and export markets.
The mistaken belief that only weapons and highly equipped armies can resolve conflicts has also taken hold within the leadership of the European Union and in many member states. The language of war is once again prevalent in Europe, and security is sought solely in military armament.
Peaceful solutions through diplomacy and reconciliation of interests are being blocked. We want to change this by turning Europe back into the peace project it was once conceived as.
We also need peace in Europe in order to promote our own interests in the world, to safeguard our prosperity and our social achievements.
We need to protect the world's natural resources, to defend our democracy and our constitutional system and to avoid weakening our economy by imposing sanctions, making energy and raw materials more expensive and cutting off trade with the growth markets of Asia. We will only overcome the problems arising from global climate change through peace and international cooperation.
The European idea of peace, prosperity, social security and freedom was at the beginning of European unification. Many people committed themselves to this idea after the Second World War. They wanted to leave the horrors of war, nationalism and tyranny behind them forever and set out for a better future. They reflected on the common European traditions: Democracy, enlightenment, solidarity. In the decades following the Second World War, people in Western Europe moved closer together: when traveling, studying or at work. After the fall of the Iron Curtain, millions of Eastern Europeans joined them. For decades, this development went hand in hand with increased cooperation and integration - from the coal and steel union to the founding of the European Economic Community (EEC) and the European Union (EU). Although the integration process was never without conflict, Europe experienced decades of prosperity and peace in the post- war period.
Today, the limits of political integration are becoming apparent. Crises have become the norm in European politics. The EU today - countless unfulfilled promises, endless Sunday speeches, lots of fine words. And many problems. When Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and her
colleagues talk about prosperity, peace and solidarity, the citizens know that the reality
looks different. The EU in its current constitution is damaging the European idea.
Many European countries have lost important parts of their industry in recent years, and Europe's share of the global economy and world trade is shrinking. We are not only falling behind in comparison to the growth regions of South East Asia, but for some time now also in comparison to the USA. The once strong European welfare states have been replaced in most countries by an Anglo-Saxon Blackrock capitalism, which is controlled by large financial and digital corporations and dominated by listed companies, and in which small and medium- sized enterprises and employees are falling by the wayside. The European Union has not opposed this process, but has promoted and actively driven it forward.
The promise of social advancement is no longer being kept: While one in four children in the EU today grows up in poverty and more and more employees are no longer achieving a solid level of prosperity despite having a full- time job, the wealth of a narrow upper class is increasing. Many people now experience the Europe of the Brussels institutions less as a gain in personal freedom than as a freedom for multinational companies to outbid regional suppliers and to fuel competition for the lowest wages and worst working conditions. School exchanges and semesters abroad, which could be fundamental not only for language learning but also for a common European identity, are often only affordable with the support of financially strong parents and are therefore increasingly a privilege of the better-off. Even the unlimited freedom to travel is of little use to those who can barely afford a vacation.
Instead of successful European cooperation, citizens and companies are now experiencing a Kafkaesque proliferation of EU regulations and reporting obligations that benefit the influential lobbies in Brussels and are particularly harmful to SMEs. They feel the pressure to
Privatization of public services and attacks on services of general interest in cities and municipalities, which are finding it increasingly difficult to support regional providers or offer public services at low cost. Many people rightly perceive the aloof policies of distant, democratically barely controlled EU technocrats as an attack on democracy and a threat to their culture and identity.
The integration of Europe towards a supranational unitary state has proven to be an aberration that divides rather than unites Europe. Instead of more common ground and major European answers to the problems of our time, the centralization of decision-making powers in Brussels has led to growing tensions and conflicts that hinder a coordinated approach. This is also due to the fact that the EU has become more diverse with each step towards enlargement. The likelihood of being able to agree on common goals is thus becoming ever smaller, and the attempt to impose a policy on countries by majority vote that is not accepted locally generates rejection and hostility and usually fails in the end anyway. As the growing number of unresolved problems shows, the European unification process is at a dead end. Endless consultations and negotiations are increasingly resulting not in tangible improvements for the citizens of the EU, but in powerless formulaic compromises.
The lowest common denominator is often worse
than ambitious national regulations.
The increasing European inability to act together is a serious problem. From digitalization to climate and environmental protection to sensible financial market regulation, from an independent European foreign policy to a response to the increasing conflicts in the world, we urgently need concepts that are at least jointly supported by a larger number of European countries. Among the major tasks awaiting a solution,
This includes a European digital strategy that makes us just as independent of the US data octopuses as we are of Chinese IT equipment suppliers.
This includes a European payment system that enables European sovereignty in the face of Washington's threats of sanctions. We need a re-industrialization of Europe that brings back jobs and prosperity instead of an energy and sanctions policy that sets Europe back further and leads to Europeans being crushed in the major conflict between the USA and China. A common European environmental, climate and technology policy and a coordinated tax policy that puts a stop to corporate tax dumping would be helpful. All of this must no longer fail due to European disagreement, but should be implemented jointly by those countries that can agree on common solutions.
Our goal is a self-confident Europe of sovereign democracies that comes together not through the centralization of power at the EU Commission, but through equal cooperation, joint economic projects, a single market with fair rules and cultural exchange. We are convinced that more European unity, better European cooperation and more common European solutions can ultimately be achieved in this way than through political integration.
Less is more. For a Europe that does its job!
We will pursue the following goals in the European Parliament:
? We are committed to a new pan-European peace and security order in order to build a
common European home. Immediately after the end of the Cold War, all European states as well as the USA and Canada made a contractual commitment to this in the Charter of Paris! Europe needs to reorganize its foreign and
Security policy should once again be based on the principles of diplomacy, conflict avoidance and good neighborliness and strive for disarmament and new arms control agreements. As a first step, we want the war in Ukraine to end as quickly as possible with a ceasefire and the start of constructive peace negotiations.
? We want to help the European Union to reflect on its political, economic and
security policy independence and thus primarily represent the interests of the citizens of the member states of the Union. Europe must become an independent player on the world stage instead of being a pawn in the conflict between the great powers and subordinating itself to the interests of the USA. A multipolar world is in Europe's interest; a new bloc confrontation with increasing trade restrictions and escalating economic sanctions is detrimental to Europe. We want to dismantle sanctions, open up access to The European Union must enable access to the raw materials and energy sources of Russia and Central Asia and keep overland trade routes to the growth regions of Asia open. Europe must also no longer be a digital colony of the United States, but must build an independent digital infrastructure that protects citizens from surveillance and manipulation.
? We want a strong, innovative and socially responsible European economy.
The EU should secure its economic and industrial base through good framework conditions and joint projects for the future, guarantee budgetary, social and economic sovereignty to the nation states, ensure fair competition in the internal market, limit the power of
Big Tech, Big Pharma, Big Finance and other multinational corporations and protect SMEs from ruinous tax competition and over- regulation.
We need an EU that is an efficient
public services of general interest and high social standards. Collective agreements and local wages must be defended against low- cost competition in all EU countries.
Imports from third countries that seek to gain competitive advantages through tax, social and environmental dumping should be subject to appropriate import tariffs. A fair global division of labor must be developed that offers the countries of the global South a perspective.
? We want to advance climate policy and environmental protection through
technological innovation, public funding and sensible incentives and not by making people's lives more expensive or destroying and driving key industries out of Europe. Longer
Guarantee periods to prevent products with deliberately short life cycles do more for the environment and climate than high CO2 taxes, which can simply be passed on to consumers if there is a lack of competition. High-speed routes between European capitals promote mobility and European cohesion as well as climate protection.
Instead of banning combustion cars, which will nevertheless be on the roads in increasing numbers outside the EU, requirements to develop more fuel-efficient models or affordable climate-neutral fuels would be a far more sensible strategy, especially as this would ensure the continued existence of an important domestic industry with unique expertise and hundreds of thousands of well-paid jobs.
? We want to stop uncontrolled migration to the EU, put a stop to the smuggling
gangs and create prospects in the home countries. It must not be left to criminal trafficking gangs to
who gets access to the EU: The asylum and examination procedures for the protection
status should therefore take place at the EU's external borders or in third countries. This is
to ensure humane conditions, especially for children. Those who do not receive protection status there are also not entitled to access to the EU, a work permit or social benefits, such as citizens' benefits, in an EU member state.
At the same time, the EU has a responsibility to help fight the causes of flight and migration.
? We want the European idea to regain its
credibility.	This	requires	European
institutions that
Protect democracy, justice, freedom of opinion and the rule of law instead of undermining them. Europe must no longer be the Eldorado of lobbyists who make backroom deals with an ever-growing EU bureaucracy below the radar of public perception and without democratic legitimacy. We want to stop the flood of bureaucratic encroachments on companies and citizens, prevent encroachments on the interests of the Member States and roll back interventions in freedom of opinion, especially on social platforms. A voice for the
"Alliance Sahra Wagenknecht - Reason and Justice" in the elections to the European Parliament is a vote for a better Europe and a red card for the traffic lights in Germany: for economic reason, social justice, peace, freedom of expression and democracy.
1. Economic reason
For an economy with a future
Europe is in danger of falling behind economically. A lack of investment in the future, high energy costs, a high dependency on resources, dilapidated infrastructure, a shortage of skilled workers coupled with high unemployment in many places and excessive bureaucracy are damaging Europe. The economic region, which just a few years ago produced almost half of all semiconductors manufactured worldwide, can no longer keep pace with the USA and Asia in this key area.
hold. We are falling further and further behind in the promotion of green and digital technologies. The deindustrialization of Europe accelerated with the euro crisis, which resulted in a massive slump in public and private investment and consumer demand.
The EU economic sanctions have hardly affected Russia and have not stopped the war in Ukraine. But they have caused massive damage to the European economy and reduced its competitiveness. Germany in particular is threatened with the loss of important industries and hundreds of thousands of well-paid jobs.
The framework conditions must be changed so that the member states can promote investments to strengthen their industrial base, (re)acquire production capacities and develop key technologies. In this context, it is important to fundamentally correct EU state aid and procurement policy, which massively restricts the Member States' ability to act, an innovative state and an active industrial policy.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are the driving force behind the European and especially the German economy. Above all, they need planning security, a crisis-proof, affordable energy supply and protection from market-dominating corporations. SMEs without their own legal department in particular groan under the increasingly confusing regulatory jungle of EU legislation, national regulations and endless application forms for EU or national subsidies. Public procurement law also puts SMEs at a disadvantage compared to multinational corporations due to EU-wide tendering obligations and complicated procurement guidelines. It also reduces the opportunities for local authorities and other state bodies to strengthen regional companies and economic cycles and set high social and ecological standards through public procurement.
What we want:
? A transnational European cooperation for future investments in innovation and
modern infrastructure and the promotion of innovative key technologies for a climate- neutral, environmentally friendly economy.
? Support for small and medium-sized companies, including through a stricter
antitrust policy that defends fair competition and pushes back the big tech companies, as well as through the creation of an independent European digital infrastructure.
? Municipal contracts to regional companies. This requires a fundamental reform of
public procurement law, which in particular substantially increases the threshold values for services and construction contracts, so that municipalities and other public bodies can award contracts to regional companies. contracts do not have to be put out to tender EU-wide. EU and national procurement procedures must be simplified and the scope for public contracting authorities must be increased, above all by upgrading social criteria, as the cheapest offer is often not the best.
? EU state aid law must be radically reformed. In the short term, existing state aid rules
should be strengthened and, in the long term, the ban on state aid in the EU treaties should be restricted to extreme subsidy competition or discrimination in the internal market that cannot be justified by the general interest.
For more investment and tax justice in the EU
The ruling by the Federal Constitutional Court in November 2023 on the Climate and Transformation Fund (CTF) has caused a budget crisis in Germany - and put the discussion about the debt brake back on the agenda. Less
It is well known that the EU treaties also provide for a kind of debt brake in the form of the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP):
The SGP stipulates strict upper limits for government debt (60 percent of gross domestic product, GDP) and annual net borrowing (3 percent of GDP). As a result of the euro crisis, the SGP has been supplemented by a complex set of rules for economic and budgetary surveillance in the EU.
EU and eurozone, which, among other things, requires highly indebted countries to reduce their debt by 5 percent annually and forces them to make socially and economically damaging cuts. In addition, the EU Commission ensured that the process
The European Semester has a considerable influence on the design of national budgetary policy.
Economists and trade unions have been calling for comprehensive reforms to EU fiscal rules for years: EU debt rules do not put the brakes on debt, but on investment. Germany and Europe must return to the golden rule, which allows loans to the extent of investments and establish a common definition of investments. It is no coincidence that the debt ratios in the EU and eurozone in 2019 were still above the 2008 level after a decade of cuts. This is because cutting government spending prevents debt reduction if it also stifles the economy.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the application of the SGP's debt and deficit rules was suspended in order to give EU countries the financial leeway to support their economies and maintain social benefits. This derogation was extended during the war in Ukraine to allow countries to cope with soaring energy prices.
and economic losses due to the war and the EU sanctions regime. As a result of these measures, debt levels rose sharply once again.
During the euro crisis, the Covid-19 pandemic and the first months of the war in Ukraine, the European Central Bank (ECB) took countermeasures with an expansive monetary policy in order to maintain the solvency of the hard-hit euro countries and prevent the eurozone from breaking apart. It lowered key interest rates and launched multi-billion euro purchase programs for government bonds, and later also for corporate bonds, in order to support southern European euro countries in particular. This prevented sovereign defaults and an unchecked slide into recession.
However, the low interest rate policy and bond purchases accelerated asset concentration and contributed to the formation of bubbles on the stock and real estate markets.
The ECB responded to inflation caused by broken value chains and escalating energy sanctions by raising interest rates. However, rising interest rates with little or no growth make investments more expensive, make housing construction more difficult, encourage company bankruptcies and are not a suitable means of combating inflation driven by sanction-related shortages and the excessive market power of a few suppliers. Investments in energy capacities, selective price caps and a tightening of antitrust law would be more effective, as has been successfully practiced in the USA, China, Japan and individual EU countries.
Monetary policy alone is not enough to combat inflation. In addition to abandoning a ruinous sanctions policy, this requires
1) Public investments that expand the economic potential of the national economy
2) Targeted credit control by the ECB to combat price bubbles on individual markets
3) the strengthening of antitrust law and price caps on individual markets.
What we want:
? A reform of the rigid rules of the European debt brake. An important
One step would be the introduction of a "golden investment rule". This would exclude public investments to modernize infrastructure, strengthen public services and promote future technologies from the deficit calculation.
? The abolition of the "European Semester", which allows the EU Commission to direct
the member states. Economic policy coordination in the EU makes sense in order to reduce imbalances in foreign trade, for example. However, the existing rules mean that the budgetary rights of democratically elected parliaments are overridden.
? A European corporate taxation system that is as uniform as possible, prevents tax
competition between member states and protects SMEs from tax dumping by corporations, creates a common, broad definition of corporate profits, dries up tax havens and enforces international cooperation through punitive taxes on financial flows in tax havens.
? A split-up of megabanks to separate investment banking from the lending and
deposit business. Shadow banks should generally be organized at the level of
be regulated by banks. This also includes the new generation of shadow banks (big tech companies and FinTechs), whose increasing market power in payment transactions must be combated. Cash must be protected.
For a reorientation of the EU budget
The EU has its own budget, predominantly financed by contributions from EU member states, which it can use to pay for political measures to promote EU integration. Over the past ten years, the "catalog" of objectives and measures financed from the EU budget has been expanded.
Among other things, the budget is used to finance EU-wide research and exchange programs such as "Horizon" or "Erasmus" and cross-border investments - for example in the expansion of European transport networks. The largest budget item to date is that for financing the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). The second largest budget item is made up of the various EU structural and regional funds, which are intended to promote the harmonization of living conditions in the Union and regional development in structurally weak regions.
Increasingly, EU budget funds are also intended to support the environmentally friendly restructuring of the economy and the achievement of climate targets as well as digitalization measures.
The current seven-year budget cycle from 2021 to 2027 comprises a volume of around one trillion euros. In addition to this regular budget, the EU manages the time-limited "reconstruction instrument" Next Generation EU, which was launched in 2021 to overcome the socio-economic consequences of the
Covid-19 crisis and to promote the "green transition" and digitalization and was endowed with a further 800 billion euros. The Commission, the EU Parliament and politicians, particularly from the left-liberal spectrum, are calling for ever higher EU budgets. In addition, the EU is to be strengthened through the introduction of new sources of revenue, such as income from the
emissions trading, corporate taxation or the CO2 border adjustment system will receive more money and greater independence from the EU Member States' contributions to the EU budget.
We expressly do not share this position! Transferring more and more money to Brussels is the wrong way to go. Instead, EU member states should be given more leeway to invest by reforming the "European debt brake". A fundamental correction is needed to the EU budget system, which has become increasingly complicated over decades and has entrenched structural problems.
The EU budget process is characterized by intransparency. The parliaments and the public of the member states have little insight into and influence over the deals that governments conclude with the Commission and the EU Parliament in negotiations that often last for years. In central areas - such as structural and regional policy - the Commission has acquired considerable powers in the design and control of EU funding programs and exerts massive influence on the local policies of the member states. Last but not least, every year billions flow from EU funds into opaque projects that make companies with strong lobbies and influence rich, or they are spent on nonsensical and sometimes harmful things.
One example of this is the new "Security and defence" budget heading introduced in 2021, under which the EU finances the development of military structures and subsidizes the European arms industry.
What we want:
? No further increases in the EU budget.
The budget procedure must be reformed,
negotiations must be conducted more transparently and the national parliaments' ability to exert influence must be increased.
? We reject the introduction of new own resources. The EU - and the Commission
in particular - must not gain even more political influence over the member states.
? The EU budget must be used for sensible goals and measures, such as those that
promote cross-border cooperation between member states in the areas of research, transport or infrastructure development.
? The EU's structural and regional funding must be fundamentally
realigned: Despite billions of euros being disbursed via the various EU funds
The main objective of visibly reducing regional economic and social disparities has hardly been achieved. The EU structural and regional funds cannot replace national structural policy and cannot fill the gaps that have arisen in many cases as a result of the cutback policy. National funding programs must therefore be increased. With reformed and investment-friendly EU fiscal rules, a new law on awarding grants and state aid that enables local structural support, the
EU Member States the scope for a policy that is precisely tailored to local needs.
For a sensible energy policy and climate protection
Developing new technologies that can help combat climate change is one of our strongest skills. It would make sense to support companies across the EU in developing innovative products and creating sustainable jobs.
The "Green New Deal" announced by Ursula von der Leyen when she took office and its follow-up programs, on the other hand, are shaped by lobby interests, ill-conceived, poorly executed and in many cases harmful to the climate.
LNG imports counteracted. The EU's so-called "green taxonomy" is also primarily a bureaucratic regulatory monster that imposes useless reporting obligations on the productive economy and thus harms SMEs in particular. Ultimately, this fraudulent labeling is also primarily the result of successful lobbying, in this case by the financial sector, which would like to sell funds with a supposedly green seal of approval to its wealthy clientele.
In many areas, the EU's actual policy contradicts the concerns of climate and environmental protection.
This also applies to extreme upgrading, considering that a fighter jet causes more climate-damaging emissions in one hour than a normal car driver does in 17 years. In addition, there is still no serious consumer protection for high quality standards and against deliberate product deterioration through the installation of wearing parts (planned obsolescence),
which has contributed significantly to the mountains of plastic waste that have been growing globally for years. The current regulations against plastic packaging are also largely ineffective.
The EU's latest energy policy decisions, which aim to replace pipeline natural gas with liquefied natural gas from fracking and pipeline oil with marine oil with long transport routes, are ludicrous in terms of both economic and climate policy.
The EU economic sanctions against Russia are not helping to end the war in Ukraine. Rather, after almost two years, it is clear that they are harming Germany and Europe in particular. The German economy is coming under pressure due to the increased costs resulting from the energy sanctions and is suffering massive competitive disadvantages. The Russian economy, on the other hand, is growing, Russian raw materials and energy sources are in demand worldwide and Russian income from foreign trade is high due to higher prices.
If European countries do not want to rely on nuclear power, they need gas as a bridging technology for the energy transition. Currently and in the near future, the energy requirements of a Central European economy cannot be covered by renewable energies alone. The import of expensive liquid gas has driven up gas prices in Germany and, as gas is also used to generate electricity, expensive gas also contributes to the rise in electricity prices. This effect is reinforced by the fact that the EU has liberalized the electricity market and electricity is traded on the exchange. The most expensive power plant that is still needed to meet demand sets the price. We want to change this.
The energy supply must be affordable
and as part of public services of general interest. CO2 certificates are also traded on exchanges such as the European Energy Exchange. This certificate trading is completely unsuitable for achieving climate policy goals.
Due to the strong price fluctuations, it offers no long-term planning security for companies to invest in low-emission alternatives. In addition, the securities are an attractive object of speculation that can be used to artificially drive up prices. There is no discernible steering effect: Even if fuel for the car becomes more and more expensive, people will not be able to leave it behind as long as there are no suitable alternatives. The attempt to "re-educate" people by making their lives more expensive before inexpensive, reliable and comprehensive alternatives are even available is detrimental to the acceptance of climate protection. We call for the expansion of local and long-distance public transport and the promotion of low- emission production chains. An EU-wide program for the expansion and renovation of public infrastructure and buildings, in combination with a purchase guarantee for green steel produced in Europe, would be further measures that would boost the economy and help the climate.
One important point is the grid infrastructure of our energy supply: In the course of liberalization, energy networks were privatized in some EU countries, including Germany, and have since been geared towards generating high returns. The grid infrastructure is a natural monopoly, as there cannot be any number of grids and market-based competition is not possible. By increasing grid fees, companies secure profits and make energy more expensive for consumers. In Germany,	grid fees now account for a quarter of the electricity price, and the guaranteed return on equity for grid operators has just been increased to 7 percent. We can and should save ourselves these additional costs; the grids belong in public hands.
The use of existing infrastructure makes sense in terms of energy and climate policy. A hydrogen infrastructure needs to be established throughout the EU. The expansion of gas-fired power plant capacities that can be converted to use green hydrogen is also necessary. In future, these power plants could secure the energy supply at times when the wind is not blowing and the sun is not shining. The same applies to technologies such as thermal storage power plants, which allow the majority of the coal-fired power plant infrastructure to continue to be used.
This means that it is not necessary to build completely new power plants, but to convert existing ones, and jobs in the affected regions can be preserved.
We must bring future industries back to Europe. The fact that Germany and the EU have allowed once large industries, such as the solar industry with tens of thousands of jobs, to migrate to Asia is a failure of industrial policy.
Innovation and the production of renewable energies must once again take place in Europe.
We want to exploit the high potential of citizen energy and municipal utilities and promote an energy supply that is independent of the large energy companies. Many private households, medium-sized companies, schools and municipal facilities want to generate electricity with their own solar systems,
use it locally and share it with other people. They often fail due to bureaucratic hurdles or financial outlays,
that they cannot afford. We want to support local and decentralized energy supply and strengthen cooperatives that plan and coordinate community-based energy projects.
What we want:
? Reducing energy costs and establishing energy security: we want to
reduce the supply of oil and gas from Russia again and long-term
Conclude energy contracts. Buying expensive LNG from fracking gas is not a sensible alternative to pipeline gas in economic, social and climate policy terms.
? A climate, energy and technology policy that reduces greenhouse gases in the transport
sector by setting savings targets that are open to all technologies, instead of making the ecological transition more difficult by phasing out combustion engines and imposing ruinous energy sanctions.
? The generation of sufficient electricity and a moderate electricity price: the
establishment of national tariff regulators to control energy prices. The European
We want to abolish CO2 pricing and CO2 emissions trading, as they are not an effective instrument for more climate protection under the current framework conditions.
? Investments in local public transport and public infrastructure as well as the
active promotion of low-emission technologies.
? The development of a European water economy as the basis for industrial
production and the jobs of the future.
? Promoting the research and development of
storage technologies.
? Support for municipal utilities and community energy projects and the return
of the grid infrastructure to national control. Energy supply is a public service of general interest.
For fair trade
The European Union is dependent on international trade. Germany in particular, as a country with strong exports and few raw materials, needs a foreign trade policy that focuses on stable trade relations with as many partner countries as possible in order to secure its supply of raw materials and inexpensive energy. At the same time, fair global labor
Although European and US interests differ, the European Commission and influential EU governments - including the German government - want the EU to stand firmly alongside the US as a junior partner, accepting economic damage. This threatens the EU with being crushed between the competing power blocs. The EU needs good trade relations with both economic powers, the USA and China, and increasingly also India. If it ties itself too closely to the USA, there is a risk of losing its most important trading partner in China. The People's Republic is not only an indispensable supplier of raw materials and primary products, it is also one of the EU's largest sales markets. Participating in the growing trade dispute and the formation of a bloc between the USA and China would have serious consequences for the European and global economy. The EU must not get caught between the two superpowers. It must consciously fulfill its geo- economic task of acting moderately and diplomatically in this conflict.
Trade relations should be equal and fair. EU trade agreements such as the (unconcluded) TTIP agreement with the USA, the EU agreement with Canada (CETA) and the TiSA services agreement have made us aware of the considerable social, ecological and democratic deficits of international trade policy. It is geared towards the interests of multinational corporations and increases injustice and poverty in the Global South. Instead, we want to promote regional markets and food sovereignty. We reject trade agreements that hinder regional integration and the development of local value creation.
What we want: 
? Stable and fair trade relations that secure our supply of raw materials
and low-cost energy and do not take advantage of trading partners.
? A reform of EU trade policy to ensure that trade agreements do not lead to low-cost
competition for European manufacturers due to low social and environmental standards.
? The abolition of corporate lawsuits,
which enable large companies to sue states
before private arbitration tribunals if they believe their profits are at risk.
? Relations between the EU and Latin America on an equal footing: stopping
the Mercosur agreement.
For agriculture that benefits people, animals and the environment
EU agricultural policy must have a stronger national and regional focus. Agriculture serves first and foremost to ensure food security in our own country.
We reject (free) trade agreements such as Mercosur, which include agricultural products that can also be produced in Europe. The same applies to speculation with food and land. Basic necessities of life such as soil and water are not commodities, but public goods. Price stability both
for both farmers and consumers must be achieved by limiting the market power of agricultural and food corporations on the one hand and by imposing protective tariffs on imports of agricultural goods on the other.
We rely on regional economic cycles with short delivery routes. Not only farmers, but everyone working in this sector must be able to make a living from their work. We need more decentralized small and medium-sized enterprises such as dairies, abattoirs and grocery stores. This will not only put farmers on an equal footing with negotiating partners in food processing and sales, but will also help them to make a living from their work.
ensures fair prices, but also strengthens rural areas.
The preservation of agricultural land has priority. Farmers must be involved in environmental requirements.
and to find compromises through appropriate transition periods and subsidies. A disaster such as the implementation of the EU Nitrates Directive through fertilizer legislation must be prevented.
What we want:
? An agricultural policy in the interests of
The consumer, which protects our farmers
from large agricultural corporations, is locally oriented and contributes to animal welfare and environmental protection.
? Self-sufficiency and regional production,
processing and marketing with stable prices
for farmers and consumers: Limiting market power, promoting small and medium-sized enterprises with regional roots, reliable origin and regional labeling.
? Ban on speculation in food and land:
Land should
primarily be available to local farmers and must be affordable.
? Food and pesticide safety through transparent, independent procedures
designed to obtain less harmful and affordable products.
? Promotion of animal welfare and environmentally friendly animal
husbandry through land-based husbandry that integrates feed production and manure utilization into regional nutrient cycles, uniform and mandatory animal husbandry labeling, promotion of pasture animal husbandry through support for herd protection measures and promotion of beekeeping.
? Appropriate and unbureaucratic promotion of environmentally, soil and
climate-friendly agricultural technologies and cultivation systems
? Rejection of agro-technology,
no patents on life, free reproduction of seeds.
2. Social justice
For less inequality and other EU treaties
Today's EU is a Europe of banks and big business, a Europe in which social inequality is growing, many employees can no longer live well on their income and small and medium- sized enterprises feel let down by politics. Many of the problems are not simply due to individual political mistakes, but are more fundamentally rooted in the EU treaties, which set the framework for EU policy. These treaties are designed to enforce the interests of multinational corporations against small and medium-sized suppliers and employees and to shield the pursuit of the highest returns from (social) state intervention. They thus curtail the ability of national governments and local administrations to support small and medium-sized enterprises or important areas of services of general interest. such as apartments, hospitals or nursing homes homes from being sold off to private investors.
Basic social rights and social progress are being subordinated to the economic freedoms of the single market. The results of this policy are: lower wages, precarious employment, the dismantling of trade union rights and dwindling collective bargaining coverage, poverty, (youth) unemployment and growing inequality. This is exacerbated by the consequences of the free movement of workers within the EU and by models for the posting of workers. Companies use the social and wage gap within the EU to bring cheap labor from poorer countries into the EU.
the high-wage countries. This puts pressure on the local workforce.
We want a Europe in which the disintegration of social cohesion is halted and politics is once again geared towards the common good. To achieve this, we need efficient public services of general interest and significantly more investment in education, health and housing. Workers from different EU countries must not be played off against each other: The principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place is indispensable for this because it protects local workforces from dumping and migrant workers from exploitation.
After years of social cuts, the importance of good labor and social systems is once again being discussed in the wake of the multiple crises in the EU. Some progress has been made, for example a directive for European minimum wages and one for better working conditions for platform workers have been implemented. We are calling for the right to general, free debt advice to be enshrined in law in accordance with Art. 36 of the EU Consumer Credit Directive.
Private insolvency proceedings with no prospect of success should be separated from court proceedings.
What we want:
? Social progress instead of social
d u m p i n g : A social progress clause must
be enshrined in the EU treaties, which establishes the primacy of fundamental social rights over internal market freedoms (goods, labor, services and capital). The progress clause secures national scope for action in labor and social policy and gives the member states legal certainty.
? Fair working conditions and wages. The EU minimum wage directive must be
implemented by the end of 2024 at the latest: Minimum wages should reach at least 60 percent of the median wage for full- time employees. In Germany, this would correspond to
minimum wage of 14 euros - and require the minimum wage to be raised in this country. This must be followed by a tightening of the Posting of Workers Directive to ensure fair wage payments and equal working conditions between the posting company and the company in the host country.
? Services of general interest in public hands: We want to strengthen public
services that are geared towards the common good and prevent privatization and Stop the commercialization of existential services such as housing, water and energy supply. Local healthcare and mobility services must also be able to operate free from the pressure to make a profit.
For a fair distribution of wealth and taxation of the super-rich
As a result of global location competition, corporate tax rates have fallen by more than half since the 1980s to their current level of 24%. EU countries such as the Netherlands and Ireland even undercut this level. The OECD's agreement on a minimum tax rate of 15 percent is inadequate and contains numerous loopholes.
Decades of tax cuts for large companies and wealthy individuals as well as the privatization of more and more areas of public services have left their mark: The division of societies into rich and poor is increasing. An extreme concentration of wealth can be observed at the top, while middle and lower population groups have an ever smaller share in society's prosperity. According to the "World Inequality Report 2024", this trend has been accelerating since the 1980s.
However, the concentration of wealth is not only unjust, but also economically damaging. High income inequality reduces domestic demand: those who have less,
can buy less, while top incomes are largely saved and flow into the asset markets. And where corporate profits go to shareholders instead of being reinvested, companies' ability to innovate decreases and productivity and technological progress remain at a standstill. the route. What
we want:
? Germany must campaign within the EU for a
minimum tax rate on corporate profits of
25 percent with a uniform, broad tax base in order to
end the dumping race and guarantee secure revenues for the states. Secondly, this gives companies from different countries the same starting conditions.
? In Germany alone, the tax authorities lose around 100 billion euros due to partly legal
tax avoidance and partly illegal tax evasion. Europe should prevent the international shifting of profits to tax havens and tax avoidance. As a first step, the nation states willing to cooperate should adopt punitive taxes on financial flows to tax havens.
? Money laundering, particularly in the real estate sector, must be combated through
an EU-wide linked real estate register and the loopholes in the transparency register of the true owners of letterbox companies must be eliminated.
? The German government must finally push ahead with the introduction of a genuine
financial transaction tax in Europe in a group of willing states in order to restrict speculation such as high-frequency trading and dangerous financial bets with derivatives.
3. Peace
For an EU of disarmament and diplomacy
We live in times of war. Global conflicts of interest and violent disputes are on the rise, a global arms race is underway and military spending has reached a new high.
While the world's center of political power is increasingly shifting to Asia and the global South, the rivalry between China and the USA for global supremacy is intensifying. Against this backdrop, tensions and conflicts are likely to increase further in the coming years. The EU Commission and influential EU governments - including the German government - want the EU to stand firmly alongside the USA as a junior partner in these conflicts. As a result, Europe is at risk of being torn between competing power blocs and dragged into wars and conflicts that could be extremely dangerous not only for prosperity, but also for the lives of people in Europe.
Instead of focusing on a foreign policy of peaceful conflict resolution, reconciliation, diplomacy and détente, the EU is also massively arming itself: Since 2014, annual military spending has risen from 162 billion to 214 billion euros. The EU is building up its own military structures and pushing ahead with defense, military and arms policy cooperation and integration. There are now discussions about building up its own nuclear forces.
The war in Ukraine is a bloody proxy war between the USA and Russia.
To this day, there have been no serious efforts by the West to end it through negotiation.
Opportunities to do so, which did exist, were thrown to the wind. As a result, Ukraine's negotiating position has deteriorated significantly. As long as the guns in Ukraine remain silent, this war will continue to cause immeasurable human suffering and cost the European Union billions in arms and military aid.
burden other support. And however this war ends, it will leave Europe with a wounded, impoverished, destroyed, depopulating country in its midst.
Against the backdrop of global human challenges such as the fight against hunger, environmental destruction and climate change, a responsible policy that focuses on cooperation and diplomacy instead of armament and military solutions is urgently needed. Instead of trying to instrumentalize the countries of the global South for conflicts or to lecture them morally, it is time for dialogue and cooperation at eye level.
Especially as anything else would harm the West itself and isolate it in the world. The application of double standards when it comes to compliance with international law must be ended. This would allow the EU to act as a credible diplomatic actor in the future and mediate in international conflicts.
What we want:
? A peaceful Europe in a multipolar world:
We call for a policy of détente, reconciliation
of interests and international cooperation and are committed to strengthening the UN and OSCE. Our goal is a new European
peace order, which should also include Russia in the longer term. Peace and security in Europe cannot be guaranteed in a stable and lasting way in conflict with the nuclear power Russia. The EU must not allow itself to be drawn into the conflict between the USA and China, but should pursue the European interest in diverse trade and energy partnerships.
? Disarming instead of arming: At EU level, we advocate the transformation of the
European Defense Agency into a European Agency for Disarmament, Arms Control and Conversion and the withdrawal of American nuclear weapons from EU member states. We oppose the further militarization of the EU.
? 
A dismantling of EU military
s t r u c t u r e s	and instruments: The
military structures built up in recent years, such as PESCO, the European Defense Fund (EDF), the European Peace Facility (EFF) to fund
EU military missions and new instruments for arms procurement such as ASAP, EDIR- PA, EDIP must be dismantled and the financial resources freed up as a result must be used for instruments of civil conflict resolution.
? End the war in Ukraine through negotiations: We call for a ceasefire and the
start of peace negotiations. In order to motivate Russia to enter into negotiations, an immediate stop to all arms exports to Ukraine should be offered in this case. Towards the Ukrainian leadership
further support and the payment of aid funds from the so-called
"Ukraine Facility" should also be made conditional on the willingness to negotiate peace.
? Maintaining the principle of unanimity in the Common Foreign and Security Policy
(CFSP) and the Common Security and Defense Policy (CSDP): In order to be able to implement EU military missions and sanctions even faster, EU elites and the German government are demanding that these decisions should no longer be taken unanimously in the EU Council, but by majority vote. In addition, efforts are being made to water down the German parliamentary reservation on military deployments (the Bundestag must give its consent before soldiers are sent). We reject this!
? Stop arms exports: Exports of weapons, armaments and weapon parts from the EU to
crises and war zones must be stopped immediately.
For a sensible neighborhood policy - solidarity-based cooperation instead of EU enlargement
The accession processes of Albania, Bosnia- Herzegovina, Montenegro, North Macedonia and Serbia have been ongoing for many years. It is still not possible to predict when these countries will actually be able to join the European Union. Negotiations with Turkey, which has had the status of a candidate country for more than 20 years, have been on hold for several years.
Now von der Leyen & Co. are talking about accepting Ukraine into the EU, the poorest country in Europe even before the war, with major democratic deficits and rampant corruption. It was recently decided to start accession talks. Financially, Ukraine's accession would be a bottomless pit, politically it would mean abandoning all claims to the rule of law to which the EU once committed itself. Obviously, economic and social stability in the EU and in Germany, the largest financier of the EU budget, is to be sacrificed for a supposed geo-strategic advantage of the West over Russia.
The EU would also like to admit Moldova and, in the long term, even Georgia for geopolitical reasons. However, all three countries are currently far from fulfilling the European Union's criteria in the areas of rule of law, democracy, human rights, institutional stability and the protection of minorities. The Russian-speaking minority in Ukraine was massively discriminated against even before the Russian army invaded in February 2022. Left-wing, critical parties in particular were banned. In Moldova, too, key rule of law requirements have not been met following the ban on television stations and the banning of an opposition party.
The accession of the five countries of the Western Balkans, Kosovo, Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova would increase the EU budget by
a further 36.7 billion euros. Ukraine alone would account for 26.6 billion of this. German taxpayers would have to pay an additional 9 billion euros a year to finance this, an amount that would be urgently needed in our care facilities or schools!
What we want:
? A moratorium on EU enlargement
and uniform criteria for all countries.
We reject the opening of accession negotiations with Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia.
? A neighborhood policy that is geared towards peace, the eradication of poverty
and underdevelopment and creates opportunities for international cooperation instead of hasty accession negotiations.
For an EU policy that stops illegal migration and increases prospects in the home countries
War, violence and political persecution are a terrible reality in many countries. It is clear to us that people who are persecuted for political, religious or other reasons and therefore have to flee their home country have a right to asylum.
People fleeing war or group-related violence also need help and safe refuge, preferably as close as possible to their home countries.
According to the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR), the number of people seeking protection is growing steadily. 108.4 million people worldwide were on the run in 2022. The EU is also facing a massive increase in refugees and migrants. Tens of thousands of people have died on the dangerous escape routes, especially across the Mediterranean, because they were transported by trafficking organizations in unseaworthy boats or exposed to other life- threatening situations.
As understandable as it is that people in Europe are looking for a way out of poverty, underdevelopment and economic misery, it is also clear that migration is not the solution to the problem of poverty and inequality in the world. Even if some people manage to improve their living conditions as a result, this does not apply to the majority of people. In particular, the poorest, who suffer from hunger and do not have the means to flee dangerously, usually do not make it to Europe in the first place. Even if all the inhabitants of the world's slums and slums could flee, poverty would be elsewhere, but not gone.
There is also a right not to have to flee and a duty of these states to guarantee this to their citizens.
We need more honesty in the debate: immigration and the coexistence of different cultures can be an enrichment for the destination countries. However, this only applies as long as local capacities a r e not overstretched and integration is successful. In France and other countries, and to a lesser extent in Germany, Islamist-influenced parallel societies have emerged in recent years as a result of a completely misguided immigration policy, in which law and order only apply to a limited extent, Sharia law is preached a n d children grow up hating Western culture.
The many problems associated with failed integration do not affect the expensive old districts of the big cities or the villa districts, but the poorer districts in the conurbations, where housing, schools and infrastructure are usually not in good condition anyway.
For years, the EU has been haggling over a reform of the Common European Asylum System (CEAS) without really achieving any tangible results: neither in terms of a significant reduction in the number of migrants entering the EU nor in terms of solidarity-based burden- sharing. We call for a fundamental reform of refugee and migration policy.
What we want:
? There must no longer be criminal networks to decide who gets access to
the EU: asylum procedures based on the rule of law at the external borders and in third countries would be
The safest way to open up the path to the EU for those who really need protection, even if they cannot afford to pay the people smugglers, and to spare all those who have no right to asylum and therefore no prospect of staying the life-threatening and expensive journey.
? R e d u c e the causes of flight and migration: To complement a restrictive
migration policy, the EU must tackle the causes of flight and migration. This requires a reorientation of its foreign policy, Economic, trade and development policy to improve the conditions for economic development in the countries of the South.
? In addition, the EU can and must increase its political efforts to resolve wars and
conflicts diplomatically, together with the UN, regional organizations or bilaterally. This also includes ensuring that no weapons are exported from the EU to
crisis regions should no longer be exported and EU countries should no longer take part in wars of intervention. It is no coincidence that a particularly large number of immigrants today come from countries that have been devastated by Western wars and regime change attempts: Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria. This is another reason why we reject military interventions that violate international law and have become a major cause of flight, displacement and migration. The war in Ukraine, which has also caused a large movement of refugees, was started militarily by Russia, but it could have been prevented by the West and ended long ago.
? This also includes Germany and other EU states stopping their recruitment
programs in countries of the Global South with which they have good relations.
skilled workers to Europe. With this policy, the
EU is systematically creating a brain drain from the countries of origin and depriving them of precisely those key players who are needed locally for economic development.
are needed. The shortage of skilled workers in the EU must primarily be remedied through improved training and appropriate wages.
? Nevertheless, we should contribute to the
qualification and training of people from
poorer countries through international partnerships. Within the framework of limited quotas, people who already have an employment contract and secure financial prospects must be better supported.
Immigrants who have already been well integrated over longer periods of time through language acquisition and work need reliable prospects.
We should not throw a spanner in the works of people who have made an effort.
? The inhumane trafficking of human b e i n g s must be consistently
combated. To this end, cooperation between EU member states and with third countries must be improved and expanded.
? UNHCR figures show that the vast majority of those displaced by war and violence seek
refuge as internally displaced persons or in a neighboring country because they are unable to pay the high sums for smugglers. The EU states have a duty to provide organizations such as the UNHCR and other humanitarian organizations with better financial resources so that they can effectively offer help and protection to people on the ground. Money that is not spent in the affected
countries for refugees and to prevent the causes of flight protects many times more human lives and is far more effective than the expensive reception in the EU.
4. Freedom and democracy
For a Europe of sovereign democracies instead of dirigisme from Brussels
Since the EU treaties came into force, there has been a clear shift of powers away from national governments and parliaments to the EU level. As a result, important political decisions are becoming increasingly distant for citizens and are no longer comprehensible - let alone controllable. The majority of Europeans do not want a further transfer of power to the EU level, which would result in more intransparency and undermine democracy. EU regulations should be limited to problems that cannot be solved at national level.
Cooperation within the EU and the democratic sovereignty of nation states are not mutually exclusive: for example, we need effective minimum taxes to combat corporate tax dumping. This also requires willing states to lead the way and enforce international cooperation through punitive taxes on financial flows in tax havens. In contrast, we need less intervention by the EU through competition law when it comes to public services of general interest in the municipalities.
The EU Commission has the sole right of initiative for EU directives and regulations. It therefore has a lot of power, but is not directly elected by citizens and can hardly be controlled by them. Instead of transparency or proximity to citizens, Brussels politics is characterized by backroom deals, opaque influence in expert committees and a lack of control.
One particularly blatant example was the EU Commission's approach to vaccination.
procurement in the Covid-19 pandemic. Commission President von der Leyen negotiated the most extensive of all EU vaccine contracts by text message - worth an estimated 35 billion euros! These contracts are still under lock and key today, even the EU Parliament may only view redacted documents. At the same time, the EU Parliament itself has a massive problem with lobbying, corruption and money laundering, as the recent "Qatar-gate" corruption scandal shows.
Brussels is the European capital of lobbyists. Around 30,000 lobbyists influence the EU institutions here. About
70 percent of them work for large companies and trade associations. Many people in the EU rightly have the impression that Brussels is "far away" and that intransparent decisions are made there against their interests. As more and more power is transferred to the EU level, citizens are losing influence over politics. It is an attack on democracy when Brussels interferes in the formulation of national budgets.
Europe needs better functioning democracies and more citizen participation instead of a growing concentration of power in the hands of Brussels technocrats and bureaucrats. The measures taken after countless scandals to regulate lobbying and corruption are completely inadequate.
What we want:
? Subsidiarity instead of EU centralism:
What can be regulated better and more
democratically at local, regional or national level must not be left to the regulatory frenzy of the EU technocracy. We do not want a further shift of power to the EU level, but the opposite: a
Strengthening the sovereignty of democratically elected national parliaments and governments to shape policy in their countries without dirigiste directives from Brussels.
design. We also advocate the close examination and, if necessary, non- implementation of EU requirements at national level if they are more economically viable.
reason, social justice, peace, democracy and freedom of opinion.
run back.
? Curbing lobbying and corruption: We are in favor of a mandatory lobby register (EU
transparency register) for parliament, Commission and Council. They also demand We need a grace period when switching between politics and business in order to curb the revolving door effect.
? Strengthen fundamental and human rights: We want the EU to accede to the
European Convention on Human Rights. Fundamental social rights must, in accordance with the revised European Social Charter of the Council of Europe, be enforceable by individuals before the European Court of Justice.
For freedom of expression instead of cancel culture
The right to freedom of expression applies in the European Union. It is enshrined in Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, among other things. However, many people in the EU no longer dare to say what they think openly.
Of course, freedom of opinion has a clearly defined limit, namely where hatred and agitation against individuals or groups of people are spread. Up to this limit, freedom of expression must not be restricted.
For years, however, we have been experiencing an increasing narrowing of the "permissible" corridor of opinion. Morally and emotionally charged, critical voices are defamed, stigmatized and marginalized, creating a pressure to conform that is incompatible with an open, liberal society.
With the attitude of a modern ministry of truth, many politicians and journalists or the so-called "fact-checkers" today claim to determine what is right and what is wrong. The cancel culture is becoming increasingly exploratory
The use of such weapons against dissidents has become more and more ruthless, and they have long since had to reckon not only with public pillorying and undignified defamation, but also with de facto bans on appearances or loss of employment.
Social media, which are already controlled by non-transparent algorithms, are also increasingly being placed under political control. The EU's Digital Services Act is by no means primarily aimed at curbing lies, hatred and hate speech online, but also at reducing the reach of positions critical of the government on sensitive topics.
But it is not only free debate that is being limited. In many EU countries, the new political authoritarianism during the coronavirus crisis has gone so far that fundamental freedoms have been arbitrarily restricted by an overbearing state and people have been excluded from all public life because of their personal vaccination decision, even though there was no medical justification for this due to the lack of external protection provided by vaccination.
What we want:
? The protection of press freedom and of journalists and authors: We reject the
planned media freedom law, which puts the "protection of national security" before press freedom and is intended to enable secret services to monitor the press with state trojans.
? Diverse and independent journalism as a prerequisite for democratic opinion-forming
and decision-making. We stand in solidarity with persecuted whistleblowers like Julian Assange. It is not those who uncover war and economic crimes that belong in court, but those who order and commit them. We demand the release of Julian Assange from British custody and his non-extradition to the USA.
? No surveillance and manipulation of people by corporations, secret services and
governments: The Digital Services Act is the state implementation of Cancel Culture
and must be withdrawn. Statements on the internet are censored with the help of the DSA and platform operators are obliged to restrict the dissemination of positions that do not correspond to the mainstream.
It is therefore an attack on the exercise of fundamental freedoms such as freedom of expression and is incompatible with the European heritage of the Enlightenment.
