
	
 Europe with security 
 For a Europe that protects and benefits. 
CDU and CSU election program for the 2024 European elections
Preamble	1
I. Peace and freedom for Europe with security	3
1. Defending Europe and securing peace	3
2. Ensuring security, combating crime	5
3. Limiting migration through humanity and order	7
II. With security, prosperity and competitiveness	8
1. The European single market is our lifeline	8
2. Research, innovation and digitalization for a sovereign Europe	10
3. Thinking economy, energy and climate together	12
4. Securing regional food production	14
5. Improving health and the supply of medicines	15
6. Ensuring secure finances and a sound budgetary policy	17
7. Securing a sustainable working world	18
III. More cohesion in Europe with security	20
1. For a Europe that inspires young people	20
2. Strengthening the EU's capacity to act	21
3. Reorienting EU enlargement and neighborhood policy	22
CDU and CSU as part of the European People's Party	23
Preamble
Leading Europe to new security and strength
For us, a united Europe is a project of peace and freedom. Integrated into the transatlantic partnership, Europe has given the peoples of the continent, and us Germans in particular, the security that a free and good life needs.
Europe is proof that we can learn from history; that we humans are not trapped in a cycle of war and peace, but that a better future is always possible. A united Europe is the basis for a life in freedom and prosperity.
The CDU and CSU are the German European parties. It was largely personalities from our ranks who made European unification possible through their intelligent and courageous actions. A united Europe is a valuable legacy for us. We are taking on this responsibility for the people of Germany and for future generations: They too should be able to live in freedom and security in Europe.
We need Europe and Europe needs us.
The upcoming European elections are groundbreaking. The European security space is under threat from outside and within, and with it Germany's security. Russia's brutal war of aggression against Ukraine is a daily reminder that peace is fragile and freedom must be defended. The rise of China is fundamentally changing the balance of power in the world. The digital transformation, artificial intelligence and the fight against climate change are changing the economic world dramatically.
The transatlantic partnership with the USA is strong, but we need to do more for it. The rise of extremist, anti-liberal forces and anti-Western parallel societies threaten the foundations of the European project and liberal democracy. These challenges demand our full commitment to our Europe. We are convinced that the European Union can do better. In order to continue its success story in the future, the EU must focus on the central common tasks. It must be there for the people. It must offer our companies and employees concrete added value within the framework of the social market economy.
For a Europe of common security.
The European Union, supported by strong nation states, offers all the prerequisites to reliably protect us Europeans. We make policy for a strong Europe that delivers on this security promise. We want a better common foreign and security policy that makes Europe a capable actor and a strong voice in the world. We are doing everything we can to protect Europe's borders against irregular migration. We advocate a policy that brings together the economy, energy, climate and social cohesion and ensures that Europe can be a world leader in technology. We are committed to a policy of sound finances.
Europe, united in diversity and secure: on the basis of a common spiritual, religious and cultural heritage, Europe has founded a unique "European way of life". Respect for human dignity, peace and freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, social and ecological responsibility - that is what makes us Europeans special. That is what we are working for. We want to lead Europe to new security and strength.
I. Peace and freedom for Europe with security
Only those who live in security can be free. Ensuring freedom and security is the most important task of Europe and Germany. This involves both internal and external security.
1. Defending Europe and securing peace
The security situation in Europe has changed fundamentally in recent years, particularly as a result of the Russian war of aggression against Ukraine. It is clear that we need to do much more for Europe's security and resilience. We need a comprehensive security agenda for the EU.
Renewing the promise of peace and security for Europe. We want to remain transatlantic and become more European. Europe needs an effective common foreign and security policy. Our goal is a security and defense community. We want to strengthen European defense cooperation within the EU and NATO. The national armed forces should work together more closely in a strong European defense union. The United Kingdom, as a leading European military power, should also be integrated in the best possible way. We pursue the goal of European armed forces in the sense of a strengthened European defense union, embedded in the structures of NATO, in order to be jointly capable of defense.
Create a genuine defense union. Europe must take more responsibility in NATO and expand its own military capabilities. The threat from Russia is real. It affects the whole of Europe and will permanently challenge our defense capabilities. The Russian war of aggression against Ukraine at the latest has revealed that too little has been invested in defense. We need a single European market and not national pettiness. This applies to military equipment just as much as it does to common export rules in arms production.
We want to develop and procure military equipment such as combat aircraft, battle tanks, drones and aircraft carriers together with European partners. We need a defense industrial strategy so that the European defense industry grows and key industries for Europe's security remain in Europe. With the EU's next long-term budget (Multiannual Financial Framework/MFF), we want to significantly increase funding for innovation and for the fulfillment of our military
needs in order to complement the defense efforts of the Member States.
We are in favor of building a joint missile defense shield. Europe must make a greater contribution to deterrence through the NATO alliance as a whole. We want to improve the existing civilian and military planning and management structures in the EU. We need a comprehensive security agenda for the EU. It must be developed in close cooperation between member states and NATO. We need an EU Commissioner for Defense - even in a reduced Commission.
Giving new impetus to Franco-German cooperation. Franco-German friendship is and will remain a decisive driving force for European integration. We do not see it as exclusive, but as an initial spark for courageous steps in the EU. Our other partners in Europe know how important it is for Germany and France to provide impetus and direction with commitment and passion. Together with the new Polish government, we want to revive the Weimar Triangle - the special cooperation between France, Poland and Germany.
Cooperate more with the Central and Eastern European states. The enlargement of the European Union 20 years ago was a historic step and a milestone in the history of European unification. We want to promote cooperation with the Central and Eastern European member states in particular. We need fast train connections to Poland and the Czech Republic. We are focusing on expanding the transport infrastructure and scientific cooperation. Cooperation in the border region is particularly important to us, as it allows people to experience Europe first-hand.
Full support for our partners - especially in the event of a crisis. Ukraine must continue to receive our full support in the fight for its freedom and territorial integrity. A Russia that is waging this criminal war of aggression cannot be a partner. War crimes in Ukraine must be punished by a war crimes tribunal. We hope that a different Russia, which adheres to a rule-based international order, can one day be won back as a calculable political and economic partner.
Supporting the reconstruction of Ukraine. As Europeans, we feel a responsibility to support Ukraine's reconstruction with all our strength. To this end, we also want to enter into reconstruction partnerships, for example in the raw materials and energy sectors, with the involvement of private capital. We want to examine whether Russia and Russian assets can be used to cover the costs of reconstruction.
Strengthen Europe as a geopolitical player in global systemic competition. In an increasingly uncertain world, Europe must take more responsibility for itself. We want to achieve an EU position in the Common Foreign and Security Policy more quickly. policy (CFSP) and will therefore vote by qualified majority in future. This respects the fundamental balance of power in the EU. In addition, the position of the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy is to be expanded. We want to strengthen the role of the European External Action Service.
The USA is and will remain our close partner. The transatlantic friendship must remain a cornerstone of our foreign policy. Israel is an important and friendly partner of Germany and Europe. We stand by Israel's right to exist without any ifs or buts.
Europe's relationship with China must be based on a rules-based order. We support the "Global Gateway Initiative", which aims to contribute to the development of the
EU partner states, particularly in Africa, by activating private capital. It is therefore also a response to China's "New Silk Road". We want to strengthen Europe's relationship with the global South and in particular with Latin America, the Indo-Pacific region and our direct neighboring continent of Africa through economic and trade partnerships and development cooperation. We also need a security strategy for Africa and the Mediterranean region.
2. Ensuring security, fighting crime
Organized crime, crime and terrorism are challenging internal security throughout Europe. We need to better protect our citizens in their everyday lives.
Fighting cross-border crime. We want to strengthen and further improve Europol's cooperation with the police forces of the Member States. This is how we fight organized crime and, in particular, drugs and
smuggling, cybercrime and terrorism more effectively. We want to better network the data systems of national and international security authorities in order to disrupt the flow of money from criminals, for example. We want to strengthen the instrument of the European arrest warrant.
We are declaring war on extremists, Islamists and anti-Semites. Anti-Semitism in all its forms has no place in Europe and must be resolutely combated at all levels.
Stopping violence against women across Europe. Violence against women is one of the least prosecuted and punished crimes in the world. This must change. To this end, we want to consistently punish violence against women throughout Europe. In particular, the aim is to improve the coordination of criminal prosecution (e.g. combating human trafficking, restrictive prostitution policy). The "Istanbul Convention" on combating violence against women and domestic violence must be implemented.
Better protect children with a European action plan. We want to better protect our children from child sexual abuse. Crimes of this kind are abhorrent. All instruments of the rule of law to protect children must be used consistently. We advocate the storage of IP addresses for all serious crimes, especially in the fight against child abuse in accordance with the requirements of the European Court of Justice. Traces must also be secured at the digital crime scene. We also want to better protect children online from cyberbullying and grooming. To this end, cyberbullying should be treated as a criminal offense throughout Europe. We reject a general chat control.
Better warning of new scams. We want to increase Europol's added value for citizens: criminals use the same tricks everywhere, such as shock calls, grandchildren tricks, WhatsApp scams or all forms of fraud, especially online. We want Europol to evaluate these scams across Europe and use apps, for example, to raise public awareness and warn people about them.
Improve cyber security, fight hate speech online. We want to further develop the EU's cybercrime management and improve cooperation in the fight against cyber threats and disinformation. Europe must become more independent when it comes to cyber security technologies. We want a European cyber brigade
build up. We will also take more intensive action against incitement, hatred and disinformation online. We are countering this insidious poison.
3. Limiting migration through humanity and order
We cannot do without the legal immigration of skilled workers who want to work here and lend a hand. We are firmly committed to our humanitarian obligation to help persecuted people. At the same time, irregular migration poses considerable problems for the EU as a whole and Germany in particular. We want to stop this immigration. That is why we support the new European migration pact. The results are important steps in the right direction and must be implemented as quickly as possible. We will continue to pursue this path consistently.
Facilitate the immigration of qualified skilled workers. Germany must become more attractive for skilled workers and procedures must be processed purely digitally. The relevant work visas must be issued quickly if all the requirements for working in Germany are met. However, we want to stop the sale of visas and EU passports by member states.
Protect external borders, strengthen Frontex. We need better surveillance of the EU's external borders and - wherever necessary - structural border protection. After all, it is the state authorities and not criminal networks of people smugglers that should decide who enters the EU. The European border protection agency Frontex must become a genuine border police force and coast guard with sovereign powers and 30,000 border guards that can effectively stop irregular migration. Until the external border guard functions, border controls at internal borders must remain possible. The border controls with Poland, the Czech Republic and Switzerland introduced in autumn 2023 and the controls with Austria that have been in place for years show that internal border controls, while maintaining freedom of movement, lead to a decrease in irregular migration. It is clear to us that the border control-free Schengen area is a major European achievement.
Implement the concept of safe third countries. Everyone who applies for asylum in Europe should be taken to a safe third country outside the EU and undergo a procedure there. It must be made possible for asylum procedures to take place in safe third countries that meet all constitutional requirements. If they are recognized, the safe third country should grant them protection. We are in favor of
We assume that, following the successful implementation of the third country concept, a coalition of the willing within the EU will take in a contingent of people in need of protection from abroad each year and distribute them accordingly. We want to harmonize social benefits in the EU for asylum seekers and persons entitled to protection, taking into account the purchasing power of the member states.
Effectively combating the causes of flight. Many refugees make their way to Europe for humanly understandable reasons. The primary goal must be to provide assistance in the countries of origin and transit and to open up prospects for people in their home countries.
Conclude agreements with transit countries and countries of origin. We welcome the fact that the EU has entered into a partnership package with Tunisia. We need more such agreements with Egypt, for example, and a renewed EU-Turkey agreement.
II. With security, prosperity and competitiveness
Germany can only be a strong business location in a strong Europe. Our country owes a considerable part of its economic success to the European single market with the free movement of people, goods, services and capital. Our prosperity cannot be taken for granted. It has to be earned again and again.
A successful economy needs good framework conditions. We want to strengthen the competitiveness of companies in Germany and Europe through a smart location policy. We therefore promote research, innovation and digitalization. We want intensive free trade and a deepened EU single market. Our goal is for Europe to be a global leader in the technologies of the future.
1. The European single market is our lifeline
Deepening the EU internal market. The internal market is the engine of integration in Europe and a key pillar of our economic success. We want to make the further development and completion of the EU internal market a central project for the future of the EU. This applies in particular to the future areas of energy, health, digitization, telecommunications and the capital market. Remaining obstacles in the
cross-border trade in goods and services as quickly as possible.
Strengthen Europe as a location for industry and SMEs. Our companies need the best framework conditions. This includes, in particular, secure and affordable energy. We will consistently reduce dependencies on key technologies and critical raw materials. Our goal is to establish raw material and energy partnerships with reliable partners. In this way, we want to support the framework conditions for the automotive industry, basic materials industry, SMEs and the skilled trades, aviation and energy-intensive industry, among others. We advocate a risk-based approach to chemicals policy and oppose blanket bans on entire classes of substances.
Giving SMEs their own voice in Europe. We want to strengthen the European SME Envoy for our SMEs. In future, he should also be involved in all European legislative procedures and be obliged to check the application of the SME tests.
Right of way for more competition and good jobs. We want to facilitate entrepreneurial activity with a European competition strategy. It is particularly important for competition with other regions of the world that intellectual property continues to be effectively protected. We advocate a review of the taxonomy and the Green Deal in terms of their practicality and also with regard to international competition. We reject the current draft of the EU Supply Chain Act. To this end, we want to carry out a success and efficiency review. Measures towards a more sustainable
economic model must be designed in a practical way and must not slow down economic dynamism.
Declare a freeze on new regulations. We want to put an end to the overregulation of the economy by imposing an immediate freeze on new and ongoing EU initiatives. We want to consolidate complex EU legislation, consolidate reporting obligations for companies and abolish superfluous EU rules such as those on whistleblowers. In addition, we want to create an independent European Regulatory Scrutiny Board that measures the costs of bureaucracy and also takes into account the experience in the member states with the application of EU law. We want to enforce the "1 in, 2 out" principle - for every new burdensome regulation, two old ones must be abolished - and thus noticeably reduce bureaucracy. We need an EU
Competitiveness check and an action plan to reduce the regulatory burden. New rules may only be transposed 1:1 into national law.
Making Europe the center of performance. We want to strengthen cooperation between the innovative regions in Europe on the one hand and the regions in the transformation process on the other. Europe should become the number 1 location for start-ups. They need low-threshold market access, less bureaucracy and better access to available capital.
Launch new European free trade initiatives. The EU needs a strategic trade policy that promotes mutual access to open markets, guarantees security of supply and reduces dependencies in key areas. We want to conclude more free trade agreements, especially with the USA and South America, without overburdening them with extraneous issues. The same applies to agreements in the Asia-Pacific region, for example with India, Australia, Indonesia and Thailand. In future, free trade agreements should only be concluded as EU-only agreements. There is also a need for better access for European companies to foreign digital markets, particularly with regard to interoperability. The World Trade Organization (WTO) must be further developed. The security of trade routes is also part of functioning trade. Where necessary, we must also protect trade routes militarily against piracy or violent attacks.
2. Research, innovation and digitalization for a sovereign Europe
Strengthening research, innovation and modern infrastructure. With an offensive for research and innovation as well as a strong EU research framework program, we will achieve a pioneering role for the EU in the development of key technologies. We focus on innovation leadership and openness to technology. Research funding must be awarded primarily according to the criterion of scientific excellence. Our goal is for a total of 3% of gross domestic product (GDP) to be invested in research and development in the EU. We want to invest more in the expansion of trans-European transport networks
- also to strengthen military mobility.
And Europe needs sovereign access to space and independent satellite-based communication in Europe. This must be underpinned by a long-term strategy.
Strengthen technological sovereignty. We want a Europe that understands, develops and produces key technologies. It is necessary to reduce dependencies and therefore diversify supply chains. In addition, we must be more cautious when exporting sensitive technologies and when importing and using security-relevant components. Chips and battery cells are and will be
In the 21st century, chips are central components of more and more products. To ensure that more chips are produced in Europe and Germany, we want to quickly fill the European Chip Act with life. To this end, we will use the European Semiconductor Alliance ESRA to further promote economic and scientific cooperation.
We want artificial intelligence, not artificial bureaucracy. Europe should become the center for the development of artificial intelligence (AI) and digital innovation based on our ethical principles that serves people. We want to promote and accelerate research, support the development of applications and enable freedom. In this sense, we want to enable AI and use it for economic growth and progress for society, e.g. in the healthcare sector. We must manage its risks, but under no circumstances should we miss out on the opportunities and benefits of AI through over-regulation. The new regulations must not stifle innovation in AI.
Driving forward the digital single market. We want a genuine digital and data union with modern competition law and first-class digital infrastructure, in particular a European cloud, as well as European storage and data capacities. We need nationwide access to 5G and 6G in every region. Our goal is a sovereign and competitive European digital economy that can set recognized technological and legal standards worldwide in coordination with our international partners. Digital markets and technological developments need as much freedom as possible and only as much regulation as necessary. We want to break down data silos, facilitate data sharing and create data spaces. We are making the internet a safer, more transparent and fairer marketplace.
Making data protection simpler and more innovation-friendly. The privacy of citizens is and remains a valuable asset. But data protection law is too complicated in Europe. Data is the raw material of the 21st century. We therefore want a much simpler and more uniform data protection law that is also applied in the same way throughout the EU. This requires a reform of the General Data Protection Regulation. The following applies
the principle that due diligence obligations belong in sensitive areas. We welcome the fact that the EU wants to enable data spaces such as the European Health Data Space. In these data spaces, the sharing of data is to be facilitated in compliance with data protection law.
Simplify public procurement. Above a certain order volume, international and above all European law prescribe how federal, state and local authorities must award contracts. The threshold values above which a Europe-wide invitation to tender is required have not been adjusted to inflation for years. We therefore want to raise them significantly to enable more straightforward contract awards. Overall, the entire public procurement law needs to be reviewed and significantly simplified.
Simplify planning law and abolish the right to sue associations. Our aim is to review all applicable environmental guidelines relevant to infrastructure projects. In addition, planning must not be delayed by excessive participation and late submission of objections in legal protection proceedings.
3. Thinking economy, energy and climate together
We do not see the economy, energy and climate protection as opposites, but as one. Without a competitive economy, there can be no sustainable climate protection, and without climate protection measures, there can be no sustainable modernization of our economy. That is why we want a secure supply of energy and raw materials. We shape climate protection with people and companies, not against them. All sectors should be supported in converting their production methods to be climate-friendly. In doing so, we rely on innovation and research as well as market-based instruments. We also support the regions in climate protection and climate adaptation.
We are committed to technological openness in the economy, energy and climate protection. We are committed to the goal of climate neutrality in Europe by 2050. On the way there, we rely on innovative concepts and market-based instruments: with emissions trading, social compensation, the expansion of renewable energies, energy efficiency and a circular economy. Our aim is also to unlock investment in innovations for clean technologies. We want to support this and gain more strategic sovereignty in the field of future technologies. This is how we want the Green Deal in the
to become more business-friendly. With innovative technologies, Europe will set an example for international climate protection.
Promote all renewable energies equally. Renewable energy is an essential factor for successful climate protection. We therefore want to promote photovoltaics, wind power, geothermal energy, hydropower, liquid and solid biomass (e.g. wood) equally and create a level playing field.
Achieving energy security and sovereignty with the Energy Union. Germany and Europe need a secure and affordable energy supply. We want to strengthen the single market for energy, develop and expand cross-border infrastructure and promote Europe as an energy location with research that is open to all technologies. In the case of hydrogen, we need a rapid ramp-up of European and international production and a functioning transport infrastructure with a cross-border pipeline network. We stand for an ambitious and swift implementation of the EU hydrogen strategy. In order to secure the necessary future demand for hydrogen imports, we want to establish more energy partnerships with reliable partners. We want to intensify research in the field of energy, climate and materials research and promote Europe as a research location for innovative nuclear technologies suchas nuclear fusion. For us, the energy mix includes all renewable energies as well as nuclear power - we cannot do without this option at present.
Driving forward the circular economy, using raw materials responsibly. In addition to the recycling of waste, the circular economy also includes the circular use of water and heat. We want to close material cycles and improve the longevity of products.
Establish a circular CO2 economy across Europe. We want to strengthen natural sinks (e.g. moors, soils, forests), technical sinks (i.e. industrial capture and storage) and, above all, the use of CO2 throughout Europe. Only with CCS and CCU technologies can we achieve climate neutrality through negative emissions. To achieve this, we need a reliable framework and a Europe-wide CO2 infrastructure. In addition, direct CO2 capture from the air must be supported with the first ambitious pilot projects and integration into emissions trading.
Creating a future perspective for the clean combustion engine. We stand by the car, regardless of the drive type. We want to abolish the ban on combustion engines and maintain Germany's cutting-edge combustion engine technology and develop it further in a technology-neutral way. Synthetic fuels play a central role in this. We do not prescribe any technologies.
Safeguarding natural resources, adapting to climate change. Protecting biodiversity and precious resources such as water and forests is our insurance for the future.
Climate adaptation and sustainable management are core European tasks. To this end, we want to find best-practice examples, particularly in coastal and flood protection measures.
4. Securing regional food production
Our farmers produce high-quality food and make an invaluable contribution to food security as well as environmental, climate, species and resource protection. They guarantee value creation in the regions with valuable jobs and sustainable production and use of raw materials. They deserve appreciation and recognition for this. We want our farmers to be able to continue to operate well in the future. That is why we are committed to improving the framework conditions in agriculture. In doing so, we focus primarily on incentives and support rather than bans.
Focus on food security and the economic prospects for farmers. The Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) must have a strong economic pillar that offers farmers protection in volatile markets and allows them to farm sustainably and earn a sufficient income. Direct payments should be a genuine reward for the diverse services provided by agriculture and be greatly simplified.
Shaping the future together with agriculture. We stand by the side of our farmers. The strategic dialog initiated by the President of the EU Commission should be continued and expanded: We want to shape the future together with all farmers.
Secure livestock grazing - lower the protection status of the wolf. Herd protection measures alone are not enough to ensure a future for livestock grazing in Europe. In many areas, we need a wolf management system that limits the number of wolves and allows wolves to be shot when densities are high. Comparable adaptations are also needed for other large predators.
Investment in agriculture as a high-tech sector. We want a strong impulse for precision agriculture, new breeding technologies, integrated pest management and the use of robotics in agriculture.
No excessive requirements for our farmers. This applies in particular to new rules on the sustainable use of pesticides, set-asides and bureaucracy. The EU obligation to set aside 4% of agricultural land will be abolished. There needs to be an immediate stop to burdens on agriculture.
Developing rural areas into regions of the future. With us, rural development will remain a focus of EU policy. In addition to agriculture and forestry, we want to strengthen the bioeconomy, renewable energies and tourism in rural regions and take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitalization.
5. Improving health and the supply of medicines
The coronavirus pandemic has clearly shown that even the best national healthcare system can never protect against a pandemic on its own. The pandemic has also clearly demonstrated Europe's dependence on other countries for the supply of medicines. Europe must therefore join forces to make important progress in the fight against serious diseases such as cancer and Alzheimer's. We want to create a health union, but one that does not lead to the standardization of healthcare systems. Future technologies such as artificial intelligence offer great opportunities to make decisive progress in health and the fight against cancer.
These potentials must be exploited to the full in a European alliance - taking ethical issues into account.
Creating a Health Union. Our goal is a European Health Union for research and innovation, where cutting-edge research and first-class applications go hand in hand and intellectual property is protected. We need a European Health Union that enables and exchanges knowledge and innovation. To this end
we want to drive forward the initiatives for a genuine European Health Data Space. We want to implement the digital European patient file. We are committed to prevention and the Europe-wide outlawing of drugs. We firmly reject social experiments such as the legalization of hashish or other drugs for recreational use. We therefore do not want cannabis to be legalized.
Europe must once again become the pharmacy of the world. We want to create investment-friendly framework conditions for the pharmaceutical industry so that more medicines, such as antibiotics and children's medicines, are once again manufactured in production facilities in Europe. This includes comprehensive patent protection and more diverse supply chains. This is how we counter the shortage of medicines and take precautions.
Fighting serious diseases together and fully implementing the European Cancer Plan. Europe must join forces to make important progress in the fight against serious diseases such as cancer and Alzheimer's. We are in favor of a European plan for cardiovascular health and an EU action plan for mental health. Europe must also continue to expand its leading role in vaccine development in order to be best prepared for a possible next pandemic.
Further develop health policy. We support the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) as well as EU activities for better health security and international crisis preparedness.
Develop a European care strategy. We need improved networks and innovative structures for the best care and less loneliness. We reject a shift of responsibilities to European level. Instead, we want a better exchange in the field of care, better research funding and better recruitment of care workers.
Shaping driving license law with sense and reason. Mobility is individual freedom - especially for people in rural areas. Our aim is therefore to maintain the current validity period of driving licenses. We reject the introduction of medical tests for older people.
6. Ensuring secure finances and a sound budgetary policy
The guarantee for a strong EU is a reliable and stability-oriented financial policy. It is central to the lasting cohesion of our community of states and the prerequisite for attractive framework conditions for private investment.
For a genuine stability union, against a debt union. We want a responsible fiscal policy in Europe. Each member state is liable for its own debts. We clearly reject all forms of German liability for the debts of other states or for savings deposits in other states (deposit guarantee). To ensure sustainable budget management, instruments must also be created to ensure compliance. Borrowing to finance the Corona Reconstruction Fund in the emergency situation of the pandemic must remain an exception. We call on the Commission to draw up a concrete roadmap for the repayment of the recovery fund. European funds must not be allowed to flow into the social programs of the Member States.
Preserve the Stability and Growth Pact. This pact is about a precautionary budgetary policy. Both the debt ratio of 60 % of GDP and the annual deficit criterion of 3 % of GDP must remain binding for all Member States. Violations of the stability criteria must be consistently sanctioned.
structural and investment funds to improve competitiveness. We support a cohesion policy that promotes the equal development of all European regions, especially rural areas, and structurally strengthens Europe's competitiveness. The eastern German states owe their development primarily to the efforts of their citizens and solidarity within Germany, but also to support from the EU. For the next funding period in structural and cohesion policy, we want to ensure continued support for the eastern German states, structurally weak areas and transition regions throughout Germany.
The European Central Bank (ECB) must maintain monetary stability and combat inflation. We are committed to the independence of the ECB and to its mandate, which is limited exclusively to monetary stability and banking supervision. Monetary and financial policy must remain separate. We must oppose the planned enlargement of the EU to the
This is an opportunity to change the distribution of votes in the ECB Governing Council. Our goal is a voting weight in relation to the size of the economy and the liability risk of the individual country. We are keeping the euro stable as a currency. In addition to the adjustment of interest rates by the ECB, budgetary discipline and a reduction of excessive debt levels by the member states are essential steps to effectively combat inflation.
Preserve cash. The important fight against money laundering must not be confused with an unnecessary fight against cash. We are committed to the preservation of cash.
Further develop the capital markets union, reduce risks in the banking system. We want to make Europe and Germany a strong financial center that sets international standards and provides European companies with the capital they need. We want to deepen the Capital Markets Union and strengthen the single market for financial services. We reject taxpayer-funded bank bailouts and the communitization of liability assumption within the framework of the European deposit guarantee scheme.
Regulate financial markets in the service of citizens and businesses. The financial economy must play a serving and stabilizing role for the real economy. The financial markets should not become independent. Our German three-pillar system of private banks, public-sector banks and cooperative banks has proven its worth. We are in favor of strict regulation of the global financial market, which nevertheless takes into account the differences in our banking system.
7. Securing a sustainable working world
A well-functioning economy with a sustainable labor market is an important prerequisite for people to live independently. Work is valuable because it guarantees material security, creates identity and participation. At the same time, good tax revenues and social contributions enable the member states to finance their welfare state with secure pensions, a good healthcare and care system and help for the most vulnerable.
For a modern working world and a socially secure Europe. We want a strong labor market with many employees covered by social insurance and fairly paid jobs. We are committed to labor law and social protection standards for all employees. We stand for a social Europe in which people work, the economy is booming and the member states can finance an efficient welfare state with their tax revenues. This is how we help people in need. A high level of employment ensures strong social security systems. We want to increase collective bargaining coverage. However, we reject a European unemployment insurance scheme.
Improve the free movement of workers. We want to improve employee mobility in Europe and quickly standardize the social security and labor law regulations for the posting of employees (e.g. so-called A1 certificates). We want to make business trips and cross-border work easier. This will help people in border regions in particular. However, we will put an end to employment relationships that are only entered into or maintained in order to r e c e i v e abusive social benefits in Germany.
Tackling the skills shortage in Germany on a European scale. We want to get more people into work. By improving the compatibility of family and career, we want to enable women in particular to switch from part-time to full-time work. We want to increase the proportion of women in science, research, mathematics and engineering. At the same time, the skills of young people from all over Europe must be promoted and used to combat the shortage of skilled workers in Germany. In particular, all obstacles that still exist with regard to the freedom of movement of workers must be removed.
Create fair working conditions, including for platform work. There must also be fair working conditions for cross-border employees. We want to ensure that the important standards for employee protection also apply to the many employees on digital platforms and that they are adhered to.
Strengthen education and training mobility to combat youth unemployment. The Member States should further simplify recognition procedures and transparency instruments for vocational education and training.
Introducing the European Disability Card. We welcome the decision to introduce the European Disability Card, which will simplify barrier-free travel in the EU as an additional document. An information portal for barrier-free travel is needed. We support the EU in supplementing national measures for people with disabilities.
Supporting the European cultural and creative sector. The cultural and creative sector is an important part of our society and a profession in its own right. As such, we want to support it in its sustainable and digital transformation and protect it from the misuse of content. We are therefore committed to protecting copyright, particularly in the music, film and literature industries.
III. Certainly more cohesion in Europe
We want a Europe that is regionally rooted, nationally supported and legitimized at European level and that is there for its citizens. At the same time, we advocate an EU that works better and focuses on the essentials.
Our aim is to strengthen the European community of values and thus also cohesion among Europeans. Especially in these difficult times, strong cooperation is indispensable. We are committed to a leading European culture that is characterized by respect for human dignity, freedom, the rule of law, tolerance and solidarity with one another. At the same time, our aim is to promote social cohesion between the generations. In doing so, we focus on marriage and family as the nucleus of our society and honor the life achievements of older generations.
1. For a Europe that inspires young people
Our Europe stands for the "European way of life". Young people are the future of Europe. That is why we want to promote and further intensify encounters between young Europeans.
Promoting the mobility of young people. We want to strengthen youth exchanges and volunteer programs in Europe and provide more comprehensive support for young people's mobility, for example by expanding "DiscoverEU".
Strengthening exchange in vocational training. Our goal is for more trainees in particular to participate in exchange programs with other EU countries. To this end, the advisory and support services in Germany must be expanded and brought together under one national umbrella.
Supporting young people through Erasmus+. We are committed to the expansion and financial increase of the Erasmus+ program, which enables students, trainees and pupils to complete part of their education abroad in Europe.
Recognize certificates and diplomas in the European Education Area. We want to develop criteria that ensure the comparability of educational qualifications in all areas (schools, universities and vocational training) - without undermining established structures.
Protect press and media freedom. A framework is needed that does justice to the developments in the modern media world. The European Media Freedom Act is a clear step forward for pluralism and better combating disinformation. Especially in times of hybrid external threats, we must strengthen press and media freedom at EU level.
2. Strengthening the EU's ability to act
The EU must become more capable of acting - both internally and externally. This requires reforms to the EU institutions and the way they work. Only in this way can the EU provide answers to the challenges of the future.
More Europe where Europe can do more. We need an EU that concentrates on those tasks that can be performed better at European level than at national, regional and local level. This applies above all to internal and external security, migration, the economy, trade, energy and climate protection. The instrument of "enhanced cooperation" in the sense of a Europe of pioneers should also be used more frequently.
EU enlargement and reform must go hand in hand. In future, the EU should reach united positions on the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) more quickly and therefore vote by qualified majority in future.
This respects the fundamental balance of power in the EU. The EU Commission also needs to be restructured and streamlined. We will strengthen the European Parliament through its own right of initiative and the principle of discontinuity, according to which all unapproved drafts must be reintroduced in a new legislative period. We support the EPP's lead candidate, Dr. Ursula von der Leyen, for re-election as Commission President in 2024. For an EU enlargement to be possible at all, the EU must first reform itself. We want to take the necessary measures to make the EU fit for the future and develop it further.
We stand by the principle of subsidiarity, and the EU must return to this. We want a catalog of competences and a check for institutions in order to identify common main objectives. However, this must also take into account the competences that are the responsibility of the Member States. We reject an increase in the number of EU staff. We must create a greater awareness of local realities in the EU authorities.
Defending the rule of law. The existing procedure for protecting the EU's fundamental values in the EU Treaty and the new EU rule of law mechanism offer the necessary scope for action to sanction serious violations of fundamental values by individual Member States. We must make use of this.
Enhancing the diversity of the regions as a strength of Europe. Europe's strength lies in the diversity of its regions, where people feel at home. That is why we want to strengthen the Committee of the Regions. At the same time, our goal is to expand and promote greater regional cooperation across national borders - also by enabling cross- border pilot regions and further developing the European legal framework. For us, regionality also means ensuring that the provision of essential services, such as drinking water supply, remains in municipal hands.
3. Reorienting EU enlargement and neighborhood policy
Europe is bigger than the EU, but the EU is Europe's heart. Because the EU is constantly being challenged by new crises from outside, it is more important than ever for Europe to grow together. The accession of the six Western Balkan countries, Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova to the EU is in the security and geopolitical interests of Germany and Europe. Before accession, all accession criteria must be fully met.
EU accession candidates a concrete perspective. To this end, we propose intermediate stages for candidate countries towards EU membership. This can
z. For example, participation in individual EU programs, gradual access to the internal market or the granting of the four fundamental freedoms.
deepen cooperation with the United Kingdom. The British have recently opted for a path outside the EU. However, it is in our mutual strategic interest to work together closely and in a spirit of trust - also and especially in security policy. Cooperation must always serve the long-term European interest; this applies, for example, to the UK's rejoining the Erasmus+ program.
Utilizing the potential of the European Political Community. This format has created a new forum for exchange and cooperation between the EU countries and 17 other European states, which can strengthen cohesion throughout Europe. We reject duplicate structures with the EU.
Maintain good political and economic relations with Turkey. Turkey is also of strategic importance for Europe. We regret that it is currently moving away from the EU's values and is therefore unable to join the EU.
CDU and CSU as part of the European People's Party
As the CDU and CSU, we are part of the large Christian Democratic and Christian Socialist family in Europe: the European People's Party (EPP). It brings together around 50 parties from the member states of the European Union and dozens more from European countries outside the EU. Our ambition is to once again become the strongest political group in the European Parliament. Together we fight for our European way of life and our common convictions:
Our European way of life: stronger and safer together!
Europe is our home. As the EPP, we have built a Europe in which human dignity, freedom and security always come first. We, as Europeans, are more than the sum of our national identities. Our history, our heritage, our Judeo-Christian roots and our cultural diversity define us. "United in diversity" makes us strong together and enables peace and prosperity for
all Europeans. In the face of a complex world, some dream of being a "citizen of the world" without roots. Others want to close all doors and retreat into national egoism. We reject both. We are proud of our roots and optimistic about the future. We do not want to dictate to citizens what they should believe in or what they should fear.
Instead, we listen to them, respect them and stand up for them. We are bridge builders. The EPP invented our social market economy, which reconcileseconomic freedom with social responsibility. The EPP stands for a strong democracy based on the rule of law. In our Europe, the citizens decide.
We believe in our European way of life. Freedom is crucial, but there is no freedom without security. Our citizens expect a Europe in which they can live safely in all areas of life. They want secure jobs that guarantee a good life and enable a fulfilling family life. They expect a Europe that is committed to a life of freedom, justice and democracy.
We stand for a strong Europe that speaks with one voice on issues of democracy, the rule of law and freedom. A Europe that confidently opposes autocrats and stands by those who fight for our free basic order, as the Ukrainians are exemplarily doing every day against Putin's aggression. A Europe that protects its borders and fights illegal migration.
We stand for a competitive Europe that boosts its economy and creates quality jobs while enabling a good economic future for all. We stand for European leadership in environmental and climate protection, not only to protect our planet, but also to ensure economic prosperity and food security. We will further ensure this with less bureaucracy and a future-oriented energy union. We want Europe to shape and lead the future by investing in state-of-the-art infrastructure, innovation and digital technologies. At the same time, we stand for an open Europe that also protects its own interests. We want to give our citizens and our businesses access to global markets by concluding smart, reciprocal trade agreements with like-minded partners.
We stand for a Europe that is close to its citizens, supports families, creates opportunities for all and promotes equality between women and men and solidarity between the generations. A Europe that protects the most vulnerable in our society - online and offline. A Europe that ensures that people are at the center of every technological innovation. A Europe that turns "brain drain" into "brain gain". A Europe that invests in health research, guarantees high standards of health and care and fights disease.
We stand for a democratic Europe in which the citizens decide. A Europe that upholds its fundamental values within and beyond its borders. A Europe that guarantees that all citizens are equal before the law. A Europe that regains the trust of all those who feel unheard or left behind.
Europe has every opportunity to shape its own future in the best possible way. Just as the EPP has done over the past decades, we will now keep Europe together, defend our European way of life on the basis of freedom, pluralism, subsidiarity, solidarity, democracy and the rule of law, and promote sustainable economic growth and development. Only with the EPP will
Europe will be stronger and safer together.





Time for justice. Time for attitude. Time for peace.
Program for the 2024 European elections
INTRODUCTION	6
Chapter 1 Redistribution for social justice	12
Redistribution for good work	13
Wages high!	13
Shorter working hours: Time for leisure and family	14
Equal pay for work of equal value	14
Protecting employees in the digitalization process	15
Protecting the solo self-employed	16
Restrict outsourcing to subcontractors	16
Making companies responsible for the entire supply chain	16
More rights for mobile and seasonal workers	16
Strengthening co-determination and democracy in companies and the economy	17
Social security for all in Europe: redistribution from top to bottom	18
Abolishing poverty and combating social exclusion	18
Secure pensions!	18
Fighting child poverty across Europe, strengthening children's rights	19
For a strong European community: Redistribution from private to public 19
More public wealth: right of way for the public sector	21
The money is there: Let's get the wealth back!	22
For strong municipalities	22
Right to housing, climate-friendly and affordable for all!	23
Our home, not your profits	24
Strengthening non-profit housing!	24
Rent cap and affordable housing	25
Creating living space to combat homelessness	25
Socially just ecological modernization	25
Good health and care	27
Learning from the pandemic	28
Good and affordable care with fair working conditions	28
Free and qualified psychotherapy	29
Safe and cost-effective supply of medicines	29
European Health Data Space (EHDS)	30
Decriminalize drugs	30
Taxes against inequality and for a good future	31
Taxing high assets and inheritances fairly	31
Global minimum tax rates for companies and groups	32
Taxing crisis profits	32
Taxing speculative gains	32
Disempowering banks and financial markets	33
Making wealth and concentration of power visible	34
Drying up tax havens and prosecuting financial crime	34
European monetary policy	34
No power to the internet giants: Putting BigTechs in their place	35
EU taxonomy and sustainable investments	36
Chapter 2: Transforming the economy in a socially and ecologically just way	37
Transforming the industry fairly	38
Structural change on site together with the people	40
Strengthening regional economic cycles	40
For the socio-ecological raw materials transition	41
More circular economy, less waste	42
Avoiding waste	42
For socio-ecological agriculture	43
Digitization is fair	45
Freeing the Internet from corporations	45
Artificial intelligence that benefits everyone	46
Using our data for a better life instead of for profit	46
Chapter 3 Climate justice	48
Energy: how to do it fairly	49
Energy transition socially just instead of energy market	49
Fighting energy poverty and energy cuts	51
A socially just heating transition	51
The future is renewable	52
Adaptation to climate change	53
Climate justice worldwide	53
More mobility with less traffic	54
Socialize transport!	55
Expansion of local public transport in urban and rural areas	55
Right to mobility for all - reducing dependence on cars	56
Right of way: train before plane	57
Freight traffic	58
Shipping and maritime transport	58
Space	59
Sustainable digitization	59
Fighting species extinction!	60
Protecting the oceans	61
Protecting animals	62
Chapter 4 Peace and social justice worldwide	63
Against the Russian war of aggression - for peace in Ukraine	64
Collective security in Europe instead of an arms race and bloc confrontation	66
No business with death and destruction! Stop arms exports	68
Good neighborliness: defending human rights	68
Strengthening international law - resolving conflicts peacefully and civilly	70
A different approach to security: Strengthening the United Nations ...	70
... and democratize!	72
Socially just worldwide	72
Fair trade policy: cooperation instead of competition	73
Global justice: canceling debt and financing development	75
Chapter 5: More democracy, less lobbying	76
Democratize EU institutions - strengthen the European Parliament	77
Putting a stop to lobbyism	77
New treaties and a constitution for the EU	78
To get things moving: more citizen participation and direct democracy 79 Strengthening fundamental and human rights - for all
79
A union of equality: Gender equality - Europe-wide	80
Queer, social and fair	82
A socially just Europe must be inclusive	83
Fight against the right	85
Security instead of a surveillance state - police in a constitutional state	86
The borders of democracy: No Fortress Europe	87
Saving people: Legal escape routes	87
Asylum as a fundamental right - without restrictions	88
Welcome needs structures	89
Legalization now!	89
Learning together: Education	90
For independent media and the right to criticism	90
Creative Europe	91
European remembrance policy	91
Protecting consumers	92
Data protection and protection from state surveillance	93
IT and data security	94
Ensuring digital participation for all	95
Finally	96
INTRODUCTION
Dear voters,
Your vote is crucial in the upcoming European elections. Will we manage to emerge from the many crises, end the social imbalance and no longer leave decisions about our future to corporations and powerful interest groups? After all, many important decisions have long been made at European level. How can we make food and energy affordable? How can we restructure the economy in Europe in a socially just way? How can we stop the environmental and climate catastrophe, the mass deaths in the Mediterranean and the brutality at the EU's external borders? How to protect our democracy and create peace?
The Left is making a clear offer in this regard: We must regulate the market across borders and expand democracy. We are picking up on the anger of many people and exerting pressure for fundamental change. We want to finally hold the rich and corporations to account and make them pay in order to invest massively in a social, climate-friendly and environmentally compatible future - instead of leaving Europe to corporate lobbyists and the right.
The Left wants a Europe of social justice in which all people can live in dignity and free from poverty. A democratic EU in which human rights apply to all. An EU that is committed to peace. Our vision of a united Europe is one that is independent of the bloc confrontation between the USA and China and focuses on social security, climate justice, diplomacy and disarmament. A Europe of global justice that stops exploiting the Global South through free trade agreements and in the interests of corporations. An EU in which people and nature matter more than profit. We are asking for your support. We invite you to do so.
The last few years have shown that a strong left-wing voice in the European Parliament makes a difference. In the past legislative period, we have achieved a lot in the European Parliament: on our initiative, the European Parliament decided to release vaccination patents. We contributed to the introduction of a statutory minimum wage in Europe, which will lift millions of workers out of poverty or significantly reduce their poverty. We exerted decisive pressure in the European Parliament for the law to protect over 28 million workers on digital platforms. This shows that a strong left strengthens social security in Europe and expands what makes life and everyday life better.
The vision of a united Europe as an antithesis to fascism and war became strong after the Second World War. For many, the European Union embodies the hope of peace and freedom. At the same time, the EU was built to remove barriers to competition and profits, to create a common market and to strengthen capital. While governments and large companies have pushed for economic union, the development of a social union has lagged miles behind. Where the troika raged after the euro crisis, Europe is not a hope for peace and freedom, but the reason for social cuts and privatization. In the name of the common market, rules have been standardized, trade barriers dismantled, the movement of goods and commodities liberalized and the free movement of workers enforced - too often at the expense of hard-won social security and public infrastructure. An EU that dismantles social security at national level without creating it at European level will not have a majority in the long term.
Our fight for a socially and ecologically just, democratic and peaceful Europe moves between these hopes and interests, between these contradictions.
Despite all its shortcomings and misconstructions, there can be no going back on the political success of European integration, no going back to the nation state. We know that the fight for social guarantees, for climate justice, against energy poverty and against the power of transnational corporations can no longer be waged with any prospect of success at the national level alone. To be successful, we need cross-border cooperation. As democratic socialists, we therefore oppose both the proponents of a market-radical EU and the nationalist concept of a "Europe of fatherlands". Conscious of the constitution of the EU and the existing balance of power, we will not leave the European level of conflict to neoliberals and the right. Our idea of democratic socialism is international and therefore encompasses the struggle for a more democratic, more social European Union.
The EU urgently needs change. Large companies are often supported with tax money, while everyone else is expected to tighten their belts even more. Running, toiling, racing for the profits of banks and large corporations should be the way forward.
Instead of social security, we are supposed to be satisfied with either a slightly friendlier coat of paint, the mending of the previous path or the treading of the bottom.
Inequality in Europe is growing, the wealth of the few is constantly increasing - all the more reason for a strong left in the European Parliament to take action against these abuses. The Maastricht criteria prohibit borrowing for long-term public spending. As a result, there is a lack of public money in the EU for education, affordable housing, care and health, for functioning municipalities and for the eradication of poverty. One in four children in the EU lives in poverty.
Many healthcare systems in the EU have been brought to their knees by the coronavirus crisis. Nursing staff have worked far beyond their limits. But the profits of care and pharmaceutical companies have risen rapidly. Public schools and universities are dilapidated and there are far too few teachers. In many cities, there is a housing shortage for people on middle and low incomes. Rents are exploding, but housing corporations and investment funds are making huge profits. The rules to promote competitiveness and the internal market have driven the privatization of public property and public services. Services have become more expensive and worse.
Pensions are being speculated on the financial markets. Large digital corporations pay far too little tax. The market and the pursuit of profit determine areas of life that should first satisfy people's needs and requirements. We are a long way from equal living conditions within the EU and in this country. This will not get us through the crises. This is not the way to achieve the necessary socio-ecological transformation.
This is not the way to save democracy.
The EU is not only failing because of the social issue. It will crash through its self- imposed, far too low climate targets - meanwhile the climate catastrophe with forest fires, droughts and heavy rainfall is also escalating in Europe. The path of reducing CO2 emissions through higher prices and tax incentives will not stop the climate catastrophe. "The market will sort it out" is the credo. But the market prefers to make a profit! Those in power in the EU declare that they want a climate-neutral economy. But they shy away from conflict with the corporations that exploit fossil fuels and do not want to break with an economic policy that puts the interests of the rich and corporations first. Their focus on "strengthening the
For people and the environment, "competitiveness" and competition between locations means inequality, poverty and destruction. Ecosystems are collapsing and natural resources are being plundered. The EU Commission's "Green Deal" does nothing to change this. The greatest overexploitation is caused by corporations and the rich. Their profit logic has put us all in a situation where "business as usual" is impossible.
Is everyone responsible for this? No! In its latest report, the Club of Rome points out that the richest people consume the most resources without bearing the necessary consequences. He is right. The wealth generated by ruthless environmental destruction must not remain private, but must be used for social tasks as part of a responsible policy. We need to adapt to the new environmental conditions, energy transition and heat transition. We need an economic policy suitable for grandchildren.
We want to put an end to lobbying and corruption. Strengthening democracy and cohesion - that can't be done with words. This is only possible if the interests of the rich and corporations are restricted instead of pitting those with little money against those with even less. We want guidelines that corporations must adhere to. We want renewable energies and a sustainable economy to be massively promoted: with public money, which then leads to public ownership or public shareholdings. Employees and trade unions must be able to play a significant role in shaping the transformation, which requires more co-determination rights, employment guarantees and the strengthening of collective bargaining. A publicly owned energy supply system must offer affordable and socially staggered prices. We are fighting for an investment offensive that will make Europe fit for the future, improve everyday life for people in structurally weak and disadvantaged regions in East and West, restructure industry and strengthen our municipalities: more and reliable bus and rail transport, free public transport, renewable energies, a strong regional economy with good wages and shorter transport routes. This is how we create social security in times of change - and millions of well-paid industrial jobs with a future!
The social and climate-friendly restructuring of the economy and society is an epochal challenge. It requires more cross-border cooperation and international exchange.
However, the EU is drifting apart both politically and socially. The USA, the EU and China are increasingly competing with each other. The global power blocs are shifting. The world has become more confusing and dangerous, and the bloc confrontation between the USA and China and Russia is coming to a head. New trade wars and a gigantic arms race are the result. In alliance with the USA and NATO, the EU has been arming itself for years and supplying weapons to dictatorships. In times of a reorganization of the global balance of power, the EU could become an anchor of stability: For a fair world trade order, for international law and human rights, for the diplomatic settlement of conflicts, for the rule of law and for an ecological economy. As an independent actor, it must therefore under no circumstances join the chorus of imperial states such as the USA or Russia. Turning back globalization by dividing the world into zones of influence and trade instead of finally shaping it fairly exacerbates bloc confrontation, trade conflicts and armament. We are fighting for a radical transformation of the EU so that it can play its part in solving humanity's problems.
Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine, which violates international law, continues. It is a crime. Millions of people are on the run, the death toll continues to rise, homes and infrastructure are being destroyed. The war must end immediately and Russian troops must be withdrawn from Ukraine. To this end, the European Union should step up its diplomatic efforts instead of
Fueling the war of attrition. The EU must consistently enforce sanctions against the Russian power apparatus, the oligarchs and the military-industrial complex. Together with Brazil, India and China, it can build up diplomatic pressure for a ceasefire and a peaceful solution. The cornerstones for this must be: withdrawal of Russian troops, restoration of Ukraine's territorial sovereignty, security guarantees and minority rights. Civilian alternatives to military tunnel vision and more and more weapons are urgently needed.
Numerous wars are raging around the world in which - as in Ethiopia or Yemen - hundreds of thousands of people are being killed, often with European weapons and Western support. In some cases, NATO partners such as Turkey are breaking international law. Vladimir Putin's brutal attack on Ukraine also serves as an opportunity to massively increase arms spending in EU countries. In Germany too. The Bundeswehr alone is receiving 100 billion euros in special funds - despite the nursing care crisis and lack of education, housing shortages and missed climate targets. This does not create more security: the arms expenditure of the EU states has long been many times that of Russia. The profits of arms companies are going through the roof and shareholders are enjoying high dividends. Instead of wasting more and more money on arms companies, we need massive investment in the future and the climate-friendly restructuring of the economy and society - this will create energy independence and sustainable security.
The pandemic and the war in Ukraine have shown how vulnerable global capitalism and the production and supply chains that extend across many countries are. Energy prices have been driven up during the crisis. The regulation of the European electricity market is misguided and has exacerbated the situation. The profits of energy companies are exploding. Prices, especially for food, are bringing people all over Europe to the brink of existential crisis. In view of the high inflation, companies are talking about a wage-price spiral, but it is actually a profit-price spiral. Wages are systematically lagging behind inflation. The profits of large companies and digital corporations such as Amazon are rising massively throughout Europe. Corporations and the super-rich are becoming richer and more powerful, not least because their lobbyists are helping to write European laws.
The result of this crisis capitalism: uncertainty is growing throughout Europe. In many countries, we are witnessing the rise of the far right, which is denigrating democracy and engaging in inhuman agitation. In the EU, too, democracy is already under pressure in many cases, with right-wing parties in government in many member states and tearing down the foundations of democracy. Even so-called centrist parties are increasingly subordinating human rights and democracy to authoritarian measures and sacrificing them to short-term economic interests. They are moving ever closer to the right. We are taking a clear stand against the right and the grand coalition of isolationism. We are the only political group in the European Parliament to oppose attacks on the right of asylum without compromise.
The EU shares responsibility for widespread poverty, increasing hunger and a lack of prospects in many regions, particularly in the Global South. It is disgraceful how the EU, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, treats people who risk their lives to flee. Human rights and humanity are indivisible. In view of the increasing militarization of the EU's external borders and a discourse that is drifting to the right, we stand up for the fundamental values of international solidarity, humanity and human rights. We demand: No deals with dictators!
Defend human rights and fight the causes of flight - not refugees.
Democracy is not just a matter of professions and fine words. For us, democracy means more equality: in terms of wealth and living conditions in Europe
and in Germany, in the decisions that affect the lives of everyone. Our democracy is under threat from the super-rich, corporations and lobby groups that evade democratic rules. It is under attack from right-wing parties: Where they are strong, fundamental rights such as those of women are at risk. Democracy is endangered by policies that roll out the red carpet for the rich and the right. We stand in the way of the enemies of democracy everywhere and fight for equal rights for all people. No one should be disadvantaged because of their gender, sexual orientation or identity. Public services and social provision must no longer be destroyed by the pursuit of profit, speculation and the market. They are the foundations of democracy.
We know that: It is not true that there is no money for social policy and investment. Cuts and the "debt brake" are political (mis)decisions that can be changed. Money can be collected from the super-rich and corporations. Because the exploding wealth of the few is based on the exploitation of the many. We want to reclaim the wealth and use it to fight poverty in Europe, to create good jobs with the energy transition, to improve living conditions for everyone instead of having Europe's low-wage and poverty zones facing tax havens. We are fighting for the primacy of politics over the economy! A community that wants to preserve democratic sovereignty must tax wealth in such a way that it does not become a problem for democracy. A community that wants to defend its democracy cannot allow its future to be ruined by financial speculation.
Where there is a will, there are special assets!
Time is pressing. Corporations, conservatives and liberals are preparing for the "Agenda 2030" is already preparing the next attack on social rights, employees and the welfare state. This shows that If you want Europe, you have to take it away from the rich and corporations and give public ownership priority over privatization, speculation and market faith. Our economy needs a strong public backbone and massive investment so that we can overcome the numerous crises. We want the EU to work for the people. That is why we want to change the EU.
The neoliberal policy of cuts is still inscribed in its institutions: through the Fiscal Pact, the Maastricht criteria and the investment brake trivialized as a "debt brake". It doesn't have to stay that way.
We need the courage to regulate the market and break the power of the corporations. Then a different, fair and hopeful Europe is possible.
We stand up for this everywhere - on the streets, in parliaments, in companies, in neighborhoods. We are not alone in this. The protests in France against the unsocial pension reform, the trade union struggles in Germany, initiatives for better healthcare in Spain or the struggles of the feminist movement for the right to abortion in Poland and the struggles for the coal phase-out all over Europe show this: Courage is also growing. We want to build on this: with our partners in the Party of the European Left (European LEFT), our parliamentary group (THE LEFT) and other European allies.
Together with trade unions and social movements. Together with the many people who are active for affordable housing and climate justice, against power cuts, for nature conservation, for good wages and working conditions in the health sector. Many oppose free trade agreements, demand safe escape routes and provide for refugees.
They are preventing the privatization of water or producing green electricity cooperatively. They take to the streets for peace and in
ternational solidarity. The people who are active in social movements and often live solidarity and democracy in their neighborhoods - they are ambassadors for a different Europe, a just European Union.
Positive changes are possible. The disputes over the reform of the fiscal pact and the implementation of the results of the EU Conference on the Future could be an opportunity. The inclusion of common bonds, the easing of state aid rules, the extension of the deadlines for debt reduction and the creation of investment funds show that this is possible: Neoliberalism in the EU is under massive pressure. At last. But it will not fall by itself. We must and we can overcome it. The upcoming elections are therefore about nothing less than the future of the EU - and therefore of us all.
We are standing up against a Europe of the rich, the right and lobbyists - and for a Europe in the interests of the employed and unemployed, all those on low and middle incomes. These are our people. We make policy for them.
We want a European turnaround for justice. That is why we want the EU to become a force for social justice, environmental protection, international understanding and peace. An independent Europe that is committed to people, not profit.
We are not for sale and are the only party in the Bundestag that does not accept donations from companies and corporations. Together with many, we have initiated important improvements. With your support, we can strengthen social justice in the EU. In the midst of all the crises, the European elections are therefore also an opportunity. For this we need your vote.
Chapter 1: Redistribution for social justice
Inequality in the EU has grown and the gap between rich and poor continues to widen. The promise that the European Union would bring Europe closer together has not been kept. The EU's treaty principles put the unhindered movement of capital and goods before the social interests of the population. This creates more and more inequality between the owners of large companies and employees, pensioners and their families. Inequality is the opposite of social justice. It excludes millions of people from fair participation in society. The injustice can be felt in everyday life: working to exhaustion in care, at the checkout and still barely making ends meet, higher energy costs - but corporations are enjoying record profits. Inequality undermines democracy and destroys social cohesion in the EU. The EU is committed to equal living conditions.
However, inequality between regions is growing. Inequality means unequal wages for the same work in different places in the EU; women still get less for the same work. If you are rich, you pollute the environment many times over. Poor people fall ill more often and die earlier. Those who are rich can hide from taxes more easily and have a better chance of lobbying their own interests in parliament.
If you want Europe, you have to take it from the rich. The left fights for a redistribution of social wealth so that there is enough for a good life for all.
? We want to shift wealth from profits to wages: Corporate profits in Europe have gone through the roof, wages and salaries are being eaten up by price increases. Inflation is being driven by corporate profits. Companies are investing less and less of their profits in innovation and shifting more and more to dividends. They want innovations to be financed by government investment without having to use their own profits and cooperate in any way.
? We want to p u t employees at the center of economic decisions. The management of investments, modernization and general working conditions must be determined by the employees themselves. They create the wealth of the company through their work - not the management.
? We want to shift private wealth to the public sector: High net worth and corporate profits must contribute more to the financing of public services throughout the EU. For social security and reliable public services and structures, for investments in the climate-friendly and social restructuring of our economy. This is also a contribution to equal living conditions in the EU.
? We want to redirect wealth from the top to the bottom: we want to enforce minimum social standards and abolish poverty in Europe.
We are committed to good social benefits and to ensuring that people are not dependent on social benefits: because wages and pensions are sufficient for a good life; because public services are free of charge; because housing is affordable; because energy costs are socially staggered. Social participation and protection against poverty are not just a question of social policy. They rely on strong trade unions that fight for good wages. Loyalty to collective bargaining and the right to strike are central to this. Good wages must lead to pensions that enable people to maintain their standard of living and protect them from poverty. Participation is based on a socially just economic policy and the allocation of public funds: If the
Wealth in the regions where production takes place? Do the big companies pay taxes where they generate turnover?
Does public funding also result in public ownership? Are public ownership shares used to influence the type of economic activity and social prices? We want to shift the balance: Services of general interest must work for the common good, not for profit. For a greater say for employees in all companies and sectors that receive state funding and investment!
Redistribution for good work
We are fighting for good wages throughout Europe that everyone can live well on. Companies must not relocate their operations or their headquarters in order to engage in wage and social dumping or change their legal form in order to undermine employees' co-determination rights. We want good standards for everyone in a democratic Europe. We want people to be able to move freely in Europe - but they should not have to emigrate because there is no work in their country of origin or only under poor conditions. We do not accept that they are misused as cheap labor when they come to work in Germany or other countries. We have fought for a minimum wage directive in the European Parliament. Now we are fighting to ensure that it is properly implemented in Germany.
Wages are high!
At least 20 million people in the EU are at risk of poverty despite having a job. With the Minimum Wage Directive, the EU obliges the member states to enact laws for an appropriate level of statutory minimum wages and their regular adjustment by the end of 2024. According to the EU, an appropriate minimum wage is at least 60 percent of the mean (= median) hourly wage. In Germany, this would be 14.12 euros in 2024! The EU calls for national action plans to increase collective bargaining coverage if less than 80 percent of employees are covered by collective agreements. In G e r m a n y , this figure is only around 50 percent - every second employee in this country is not protected by a collective agreement. With collective agreements, employees earn more and are better protected. We want to ensure that collective bargaining coverage increases!
? The statutory minimum wage in Germany must rise to at least 15 euros and be automatically increased annually in line with the inflation rate.
? Public money only for good work. To ensure that public contracts are no longer awarded to wage squeezers and companies without a collective agreement, compliance with collective bargaining agreements must be made a nationwide requirement for public contracts, including for subcontractors.
? We want collective agreements to be generally binding: Collective bargaining coverage in Germany is also so low because it is easy for companies to evade collective agreements. Collective agreements must become generally binding at the request of the trade unions.
? Collective agreements must continue to apply when outsourcing to subcontractors.
? We want to regulate contracts for work and temporary work more strictly in order to prevent wage dumping and insecure working conditions.
? We want to ban memberships without a collective agreement (OT) in employers' associations.
? We want to include the obligation to respect collective agreements in EU public procurement law.
? We know that 60% of the median wage is not enough to cover living costs in all EU countries. That is why we are committed to ensuring that the minimum wage in all EU countries is also based on actual living requirements (living wage).
? We are committed to ensuring that unsafe working conditions with subcontractors and temporary work are banned in the EU.
Shorter working hours: Time for leisure and family
Business associations in many European countries are pushing for longer working hours for employees. They want 12-hour days and 60-hour weeks and are mobilizing against protective laws that stand in the way. They are trying to sell this as a gain in freedom. But freedom means that we can decide for ourselves how and for what we spend our time - and not management according to its profit interests. That is why we are fighting for shorter working hours so that we have more time for family, friends, hobbies and relaxation. Article 2 of the European Social Charter also stipulates the obligation to "progressively shorten the working week". In many professions, employees are already at the limits of their strength. This particularly affects care workers, educators and employees in social institutions. Many therefore work part- time, even if this means less money and a low pension for them - and exacerbates the shortage of skilled workers. Shorter working hours and higher wages will make care, education and other "shortage occupations" more attractive. In this way, sufficient skilled workers can be found and retained. Shorter working hours facilitate an equal division of labor in household and care tasks, which have so far mainly been performed by women.
? A 4-day week is enough: short full-time working hours for all with full pay and the necessary staff compensation. We propose a reduction to around 30 hours per week (or a 4-day week): to be chosen flexibly over the professional biography. We want to promote model projects for this. A reduction in working hours must not lead to an intensification of work!
? Germany must finally implement mandatory working time recording for all employees in line with the ruling of the European Court of Justice. Employees are cheated out of part of their wages due to unrecorded working hours and unrealistic performance targets.
? Waiting times during work must be paid. They are not free time for employees!
? We need EU occupational health and safety directives to protect against stress and physical overload to ensure good standards throughout the EU.
Equal pay for work of equal value
Women in Germany are still paid almost a fifth less than men for their work. This is one of the highest pay gaps of all EU countries. With the Pay Transparency Directive, the EU obliges member states to take measures to change this by 2026. We don't just want transparency, we want equality: the German Pay Transparency Act must be an equal pay law. We not only need a right to information, but also stronger enforcement rights in order to actually achieve equal pay. In addition, wages in so-called women's occupations must rise - to this end, outsourcing by public employers must be ended and public services must be adequately funded. (See Chapter 1, "Taxes against inequality and for a good future")
? All companies must provide their employees with information on wage levels for comparable jobs.
? We want a right of action for associations to enforce equal pay so that women no longer have to sue for their rights alone.
Protecting employees in the digitalization process
The digitalization of production processes, the use of computer systems and artificial intelligence applications are giving new urgency to the protection of employees. Digital processes leave behind data that allows comprehensive conclusions to be drawn about the workers. Performance and behavior can thus be monitored and controlled. We want to protect the personal rights of employees, prevent unauthorized controls and limit behavioral control. This is the only way we can maintain and develop a humane working environment in which digital applications are a support for employees and not just a means for companies to increase their profits. Digitalization should make life and work easier, not make it more difficult or be used to undermine labour rights.
? Data protection for employees must be comprehensively regulated. The EU has expressly made this possible in the General Data Protection Regulation!
? We want to ban the use of keyloggers and other surveillance technologies.
? Digital surveillance of works councils must be ruled out.
? Works councils and employees must be given the right to information on where artificial intelligence (AI) is used. It must be made transparent which algorithms are being used so that works councils can review their working methods and decision- making processes.
? No personnel selection by AI! It leads to discrimination because different experiences are given less consideration.
? We want the EU to regulate the use of AI in the world of work across Europe. Particularly in the digital sector, working conditions do not stop at borders.
28 million people in Europe work for digital platforms such as Uber, Lieferando or Amazon, often under precarious conditions. By 2025, this figure is likely to rise to 43 million. They are often bogus self-employed and receive their orders via non- transparent algorithms. With the Platform Work Directive, the EU wants to ensure employee rights and social protection for these workers. The business associations are trying to deny these rights to as many employees as possible. We want the directive to be fully implemented for all employees so that minimum wages, working time regulations, social security protection, employee participation rights and the right to unionize are not undermined or circumvented.
? The terms "company" and "employee" must be adapted to the reality of capitalist platform work. Platform workers are entitled to the same labor rights, social security protection and co-determination rights as workers in conventional companies.
? A right to information about the awarding of contracts by algorithms must be created. Works councils need the right to inspect the algorithms.
Protecting the solo self-employed
The European Commission has adopted guidelines that enable collective bargaining for solo self-employed workers by exempting them from competition law. We welcome this, but we also need a European regulation to improve working conditions for solo self-employed workers.
? Clients must also pay social security contributions for solo self-employed persons.
? Industry-wide minimum fees must be regulated.
Restrict outsourcing to subcontractors
The outsourcing of contracts to legally independent subcontractors is increasing. Companies - and also public employers! - to circumvent labor and wage standards in the main company. Such social dumping is particularly common in the construction industry, logistics, the IT sector, the travel industry, public transport and agriculture.
? We want a European regulation on general contractor liability, as exists in the construction industry in Germany, for example. Clients must be liable for the working conditions and remuneration of the subcontractors they commission.
? If the EU treaties are amended, the areas of public services must be excluded from liberalization and privatization.
Making companies responsible for the entire supply chain
The EU wants to establish due diligence obligations for companies with their foreign suppliers. It is not a law of nature that companies source preliminary products from subcontractors in other countries whose working and manufacturing conditions they cannot control. This is a corporate strategy to reduce the costs of manufacturing and storing their products. Social and environmental dumping and the violation of labor and human rights are usually accepted. It is not true that entrepreneurs do not know and cannot influence the conditions under which their low-cost suppliers produce. We are committed to ensuring that all manufacturers are held accountable.
? The thresholds for company sizes must be significantly reduced.
? We want to extend the information and co-determination rights of works councils. (See Chapter 4, "Socially just worldwide")
More rights for mobile and seasonal workers
Labor mobility within the EU must not lead to workers being exploited and social security being undermined. Even today
"Letterbox companies" are used to organize a dumping competition with mobile workers for the lowest wages and worst working conditions. This undermining of labor standards must be stopped. The EU wants to strengthen the social protection of workers posted abroad by revising the Posting of Workers Directive. The following must apply:
? Full social security protection in every employment relationship from the first day, including for seasonal workers. "Marginal employment" must no longer be misused for social dumping!
? Social security contributions must be paid where the value creation takes place in order to prevent abusive posting.
? Unemployment insurance claims must be offset across borders.
? Placement agencies must comply with minimum standards and provide good working conditions.
? We are fighting for binding, humane standards for accommodation for mobile workers.
? Occupational health and safety controls in the member states must be expanded in the interests of employees: Customs must stop creating success by detecting "illegal residence" in cases of doubt instead of taking action against companies. This is particularly important for foreign employees and to strengthen occupational health and safety.
? The EU must provide permanent and adequate funding for Europe-wide advice centers for mobile workers, such as the DGB's Fair Mobility Network.
Strengthening co-determination and democracy in companies and the economy
Companies like to see democracy end at the factory gate. The European single market makes it easier to play employees off against each other and to threaten to relocate to countries with lower wages or social standards (and to carry out the threat). They change the legal form of their companies in order to circumvent employee co- determination of company policy in the supervisory boards. However, the EU's Transformation Directive allows a much stronger limitation than the German government has implemented. We are committed to strengthening the rights of employees and works councils and oppose the erosion of democracy by companies.
This is of crucial importance for a socio-ecological restructuring of the economy.
? We demand a right of co-determination on economic issues such as investments, plant closures, relocations and redundancies. Employees and society must have a say in what is produced, where and under what conditions. This must not be left solely to the profit interests of shareholders.
? German co-determination laws must be extended to foreign company forms and also apply in full to the European Company (SE) in order to prevent co- determination flight. We want to strengthen European works councils.
? The right to strike must be guaranteed for all employees in Germany, including employees in church institutions and civil servants. We want to establish a right to political strike action at European level.
? Where public funds flow to companies, they must be combined with an extension of employee co-determination rights or public co-ownership.
? In the event of relocation, public subsidies for the relocation must be repaid. The period for which this applies must be extended.
? We want to promote cooperatives and collective ownership of companies.
Social security for all in Europe: redistribution from top to bottom
Abolishing poverty and combating social exclusion
We are declaring war on inequality: The outrageous wealth of the few is the poverty of the many. We want to put an end to this. We want to strengthen the welfare state everywhere in Europe and make companies more responsible for financing social security systems.
More than one in five people in the European Union are at risk of poverty, that is over 140 million people. This includes one in four children under the age of 18. Inequality between regions has increased. The EU's "social pillar" was intended to counterbalance neoliberal policies and their consequences. But more than 100 million people work in the low-wage sector, in precarious employment and are poor despite and with work.
We oppose impoverishment and de- security with our vision of a socially just EU in which all people can live with social security, good work, adequate pensions and a poverty-proof livelihood. Social security is a prerequisite for a dignified life. If corporations and the rich are made responsible, it can be financed.
? European minimum standards: Social standards in EU countries must only be harmonized upwards, not lowered (upward convergence). Instead of institutionalizing cuts (as with the Maastricht criteria and the fiscal pact), we call for an automatic social protection mechanism for the EU. If wages and incomes, employment and social spending fall below a threshold, appropriate countermeasures must be introduced.
? We want a European minimum income: It should secure the socio-cultural minimum subsistence level if sufficient financial resources are not available. This minimum income must provide secure protection against poverty in all circumstances. In March 2023, the European Parliament adopted a binding directive at our request; now it must be implemented!
? We want to implement a European unemployment insurance scheme. To this end, a framework directive is to be created that sets guidelines for the member states. It must set minimum standards for entitlements, the level and duration of entitlement and the coverage rate (i.e. how many unemployed people receive benefits from unemployment insurance).
? If social rights enshrined in the European Social Charter are violated, we want to create a collective right of appeal (right of association). This is provided for in the "EU Protocol on an optional collective complaints procedure" of 1995. Germany has neither signed nor ratified this protocol to date.
? Institutionalize social progress: We call for a social progress clause to ensure the fundamental primacy of basic social rights, in particular the right to strike (regardless of the sector), over the freedom of the internal market.
Secure pensions!
We are fighting for old age in social security everywhere in Europe. One in five pensioners in the EU is at risk of poverty. Pensions must not be speculated on the financial markets and pension benefits must not be dependent on share prices.
Companies want to raise the retirement age. We stand up
against this! The price increases have caused hardship for many pensioners. We are fighting for effective compensation for pension inflation!
? We want a Europe-wide minimum pension that guarantees that all people in old age are safe from poverty. It must be above the poverty risk threshold of the respective country. It should be income and wealth-tested.
? The statutory pension must secure the standard of living achieved in working life throughout Europe. We also call for low pensions to be topped up until they provide secure protection against poverty (solidary minimum pension).
? European pension funds are among the largest investors in fossil fuels worldwide. The expansion of funded pension systems has turned them into yield-driven investors who not only harm the environment, but also take risks. We want to reduce the power of pension funds by strengthening statutory and pay-as-you-go pension funds across Europe.
Fighting child poverty across Europe, strengthening children's rights
In the EU, almost one in four children under the age of 18 lived in poverty in 2019 (22%). That's almost 18 million children in need. In Germany, too, one in five children is affected by poverty. The European Child Guarantee aims to combat child poverty and the social exclusion of children in the EU.
? We want the European Child Guarantee to be implemented in such a way that all children and young people have socio-cultural participation and equal and non- discriminatory access to free education and upbringing, healthcare, healthy nutrition and age-appropriate accommodation.
? Children and young people must be involved in the implementation so that their perspectives are taken into account.
? The introduction of a basic child guarantee must be a central component of the European Child Guarantee.
For a strong European community: Redistribution from private to public
We want an EU that stands for social progress. One that strengthens the bargaining power of employees with a policy of full employment and is able to meet the financial challenges of the socially and ecologically just restructuring of the economy. The EU budget and the national budgets must meet these requirements. The problems of neoliberalism are becoming apparent. The EU is increasingly being forced to break with the neoliberal principles on which its own treaties are based. We are fighting for a strong, independent EU that organizes the social and ecological restructuring of the economy and society. The EU budget must reflect this.
To overcome the corona crisis, the EU has adopted the "NextGenerationEU" program together with its multiannual financial framework 2021 to 2027. For the first time, the EU has taken out its own loans, known as Eurobonds, on the financial markets at favorable conditions. However, this is not enough to tackle the existing crises in the EU.
The Maastricht criteria and the Stability and Growth Pact stipulate that countries may not incur annual debt of more than 3% of their gross domestic product and that their overall debt level may not exceed 60%. The fiscal pact even tightens the new debt ratio for euro countries to a maximum of 0.5 percent. These rules prevent the EU from pursuing an active fiscal policy. They lay down
The EU and its member states are committed to a neoliberal policy that prioritizes increasing corporate profits. The EU can only find broad and lasting social acceptance if it no longer follows neoliberal dogma and is not associated with personal deprivations decided "by Brussels".
The European fiscal rules - like the German debt brake - have prevented sensible and necessary public investment. They were suspended in the course of the coronavirus crisis because they failed in the face of reality. The EU Commission and the member states are currently negotiating their tentative reform. However, the 3 percent deficit criterion and the 60 percent debt-to-GDP ratio remain in place. The member states are merely to have more flexibility in reducing debt. The 3 percent deficit limit and the 60 percent ceiling are arbitrary and there is no economic justification for them. We demand that they be lifted and the European treaties amended accordingly to enable effective social policy and long-term socio-ecological investments!
The first step can be taken without changing the treaties: We want net public investment to be financed through loans. Public investment strengthens and improves public infrastructure and public assets and creates sustainable economic development. Public investments may therefore not be included in deficits and debt levels.
Investments in armaments and military expenditure are excluded from this, as they do not contribute to increasing social welfare.
? The EU budget must be twice as large in order to overcome the numerous crises in the EU and enable balanced regional development.
? Where does the money come from: We want to introduce new taxes for transnational and multinational corporations. A financial transaction tax and overall taxation of corporations at EU level through direct taxation of 25 percent of corporate profits will help to harmonize taxes in the EU.
? We want to use EU structural funds specifically for socio-ecological restructuring (European Green New Deal) in order to support people and regions in converting: Conversion of the economy and transport, energy and agriculture.
? We do not want to spend money on Frontex, Pesco and similar arms programs. Instead, money is needed to strengthen civil conflict resolution - including knowledge and research.
? Too little is still being spent on achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals and on gender equality, and we want to change that.
? Funds from the EU budget must not be tied to social cuts or the restriction of social and labor rights in the member states. This is detrimental to social and economic development.
? We want to reform the EU: It must be able to take on its own debt for which it is liable.
? We want the neoliberal Maastricht criteria, the Stability and Growth Pact and the Fiscal Compact to be fundamentally revised and the treaties amended. Cosmetic corrections are not enough!
? The European Central Bank should be allowed to finance the EU budget.
? The EU budget and the democratization of the EU belong together: The European Parliament has so far had no independent control over the EU budget. We want to change that!
More public wealth: right of way for the public sector
Public services of general interest include education, mobility, energy, care, health, housing, water, waste and much more. In all these areas, we want to establish a cost- effective and ecologically fair supply. In the EU, public services have been at the mercy of the market for decades and have been cut to the bone. The obligation to invite tenders throughout Europe and the restrictions o n publicly owned companies have damaged the quality of public services. Numerous municipal companies have been privatized. The focus on non-competition and austerity has left deep scars throughout t h e EU: There is a shortage of teachers in schools and a lack of money to refurbish buildings. Hospitals are facing a nursing crisis and a shortage of beds, and not just during the coronavirus crisis.
Energy companies are making billions in profits, while the majority are s u f f e r i n g from high energy prices. More and more people know that privatization does not lead to lower prices and better services - on the contrary.
The provision of services of general interest is a class issue: those who can afford it send their children to private schools. If you can buy a condominium in a big city, you don't need public housing. If you drive a luxury car, you don't need public transport. If you have a swimming pool, you don't need public swimming pools. Good public services are the glue that holds society together. They are crucial for people's quality of life. EU treaties and directives must no longer push for profit and privatization! The Left fights for rich public services with good services and working conditions instead of private wealth and public scarcity. Strengthening public services of general interest means creating public wealth. We are t a k i n g back public services of general interest and creating the conditions for a good life for all.
Our vision of public services includes:
? Public transport is well developed and free of charge throughout the EU. (See chapter 3,
"More mobility with less traffic")
? Everyone has access to locally produced, non-profit and affordable energy supply through municipal utilities and energy cooperatives with socially staggered prices. (See Chapter 3, "Socially just energy transition instead of energy market")
? Affordable housing for all! More public housing and more public benefit on the housing market - our goal is at least half in public hands! (See Chapter 1, "Right to housing, climate-friendly and affordable for all")
? Instead of big profits for hospital and care corporations, we want an organization and financing of the healthcare system that covers the costs: hospitals and care homes back in public hands! (See Chapter 1, "Good health and care")
? Municipal care centers: Accessible social services such as health advice, educational advice and administrative assistance are created here. The care centers also provide spaces for exchange, communication and self-organization. In this way, they strengthen solidarity in the neighborhoods.
? Create social centers! We propose that vacant commercial premises be transferred to communal or cooperative ownership and used as social centers. These places should serve as meeting places and offer basic services such as a post office and bank. They can provide spaces for civic initiatives, communal coffee mornings, discussion groups, cultural events, advice and much more. We want to promote models in which several generations live together. Village stores with access to ordering platforms for regional producers are also possible.
? Welcome needs structures: Refugees arrive in the municipalities - we support them in creating a welcoming culture and providing for the refugees. We are calling for an EU-wide fund that ensures freedom of movement for refugees and helps welcoming municipalities and cities that show solidarity. (See Chapter 5, "Welcome needs structures")
? Public water dispensers like in Rome, sun cream dispensers like in Holland and free public toilets everywhere: We want local authorities to be able to provide more than what is absolutely necessary.
We say how we want to pay for this: with appropriate taxes on high assets and corporate profits and with a strong, fair EU budget.
The money is there: let's get the wealth back!
The EU has been working towards dissolving public ownership and introducing the market We want to strengthen public ownership and the orientation towards the common good in services of general interest. Public ownership must also mean socially acceptable prices and economic activity oriented towards the common good.
? We want a municipalization fund at EU level from cohesion policy resources. It should provide financial support to municipalities that want to (re)transfer their privatized companies into public ownership, be it housing stock, hospitals, water supply, local public transport or waste management.
Models with different forms of ownership must be promoted: Ownership by municipalities, by employees or by citizens - from the classic public utility to municipal utilities and cooperatives. A common condition for funding is a non-profit orientation: surpluses and profits may not be withdrawn, but must be reinvested. In the case of municipal sponsorship, a transfer to the public budget of the municipality is possible.
For strong municipalities
Public services of general interest must be guaranteed locally and regionally. Many public services of general interest are provided by local authorities. They are obliged to put services out to tender across Europe. European subsidies are tied to additional funding for local authorities - which is often lacking because local authorities receive too little tax revenue from companies and the wealthy and receive too little support from the federal government for the costs of social services. The result: the cheapest offer is often accepted or the services are privatized or discontinued altogether. We want to tie contract awards to social, collective bargaining and ecological criteria and give priority to short distances and regional services. Many local authorities want to transfer their outsourced businesses and services back into their own ownership. The Left supports them in this process with the municipalization fund.
Our vision of public services of general interest requires that municipalities have the scope to meet the needs of citizens in a way that is geared towards the common good. The
Local authorities are subject to the corset of the EU internal market in their economic activities - we want to change that: Hospitals, museums or energy suppliers should not be seen as companies that have to compete with each other for the highest profits.
? Public services of general interest without the compulsion to maximize profits should not be the exception, but the desirable rule. Municipalities as providers of public services of general interest must not be hindered in their function of providing goods for the common good. The treaties and directives of the EU, especially in procurement and state aid law, must be amended accordingly.
? The direct award of public services to municipal bodies should not only continue to be possible, but should once again be the norm. Attacks on direct awards by corporations must be fended off. The ban on privatization that was fought for in the area of water by the European citizens' initiative "Right2Water" is a good step that should also be applied in other areas.
? We reject the current EU-wide tendering obligation for municipal services. When awarding contracts to public or private bodies, high social (collective bargaining obligation) and ecological criteria are needed. To this end, we are calling for a further relaxation of state aid regulations and an end to or at least exemptions from the European debt brake: municipalities and federal states need financial leeway to organize socially and ecologically just public services of general interest.
? EU law now allows member states, federal states and local authorities to set their own criteria for awarding contracts. We want ecologically compatible and, where possible, regional economic activity with collective bargaining agreements to become a legal requirement for awarding contracts in the EU as a rule.
? Many municipalities in the European Union and in Germany are chronically underfunded. Municipal revenues must therefore be strengthened and stabilized. The crisis in municipal financing becomes apparent when municipalities are unable to access funding because they have too few staff in the areas relevant to planning (e.g. building authorities) to apply for it.
? To date, EU funding has been tied to co-financing from local authorities. This means that municipalities with financial problems - which are particularly reliant on funding - can apply for less funding than financially strong municipalities. We want to reverse this: Municipalities in crisis and with budget security should be able to submit applications with priority.
Right to housing, climate-friendly and affordable for all!
We are campaigning for the right to housing: affordable, climate-friendly and dignified. The EU has not yet contributed anything to the right to housing - this must change. With the support of The Left, the European Parliament has passed a resolution that everyone has the right to affordable housing. The right must become binding and go further: In order to enforce the right to housing, social control over the housing sector is needed. It must not be left to the interests of real estate groups or the uncontrolled growth of Airbnb. Together with the European tenant movements, we are fighting for rent caps and consistent tenant protection, for European funding for non-profit housing construction and against homelessness.
Our home, not your profits
We want to put an end to the financialized housing industry. Real estate funds are currently being provided with EU subsidies: Vono- via, for example, received 600 million euros from the European Investment Bank for energy-efficient refurbishments without transparent conditions. No state subsidies for profit-oriented housing groups without clear social conditions and transparency!
? The funding policy of the EU and its member states must be geared towards realizing the right to climate-friendly, affordable housing.
? Tax advantages for real estate investors and companies, such as share deals, must be abolished across the board.
? Pension and other funds as well as large institutional investors are investing billions in housing and speculating on high returns. This further fuels the spiraling rents. We want a ban on funds investing in housing and housing companies. No profits from rent!
? We support initiatives to socialize large real estate groups: In Germany, we are transferring housing into public law institutions, while other countries have different legal bases for this. The EU must not prevent the expropriation of housing groups.
? We want to take the ground away from Airbnb and co. Everywhere in Europe, living space is being misused for vacation accommodation. We want to prevent this. We want to create a fair alternative ("Fairbnb") for non-commercial home sharing from private to private. We want to prohibit the misappropriation of entire apartments or houses. This will secure living space where it is particularly scarce: in cities and regions where there is high demand.
? Against real estate and land price speculation: Vacancies and speculative properties must be made available for renting, as is the case in Spain.
Strengthen non-profit housing!
We want to strengthen investment in social and non-profit housing across Europe. Non- profit housing is created locally on a decentralized basis: Municipalities, cooperatives and self-managed housing projects must receive legal and financial support from the EU. We are changing EU state aid law so that the EU no longer hinders the preferential treatment of non-profit housing. We stand alongside Deutsche Wohnen & Co in expropriating - in cities with a dysfunctional housing market such as Berlin, we want to transfer real estate groups with more than 3,000 apartments into public ownership.
? We want to support local authorities financially in acquiring decentralized housing and managing it on a non-profit basis. We want to create a European municipalization fund for this purpose. Local authorities can access this fund and thus bring public services of general interest into public hands. In Germany, this would allow housing portfolios to be taken over by real estate groups. In other European countries, homeowners who are threatened with eviction due to rising interest costs can be supported.
? Social housing must not be used to subsidize private investors. The construction of social housing must be placed permanently in the hands of non-profit actors.
? Once subsidized, always socially bound: Publicly subsidized housing must remain permanently socially bound.
? We are creating support programs from the European Investment Bank for non- profit housing and adapting the regulations in the Stability and Growth Pact,
so that investments in non-profit housing are not offset against debts.
Rent cap and affordable housing
It has become the norm in the EU for people to spend more than 40 percent of their income on housing, while real estate companies use inflation, index-linked rents and energy modernization to increase their profits. The problem has become even worse in many European cities. Whether in Milan, Madrid, Mannheim or Dresden, life is becoming unaffordable for more and more people.
? We want binding rent caps and a ban on index-linked rental contracts throughout the EU. This will also slow down the construction of luxury apartments - we need more affordable housing!
? A large non-profit housing sector keeps rents affordable - as in Vienna, for example. In order to finally counteract the housing crisis, investment in affordable, social housing must be massively increased and flow into the development of a non-profit housing sector.
? Safe from dismissal: We demand permanent tenancy agreements throughout Europe as effective protection against dismissal.
Creating living space to combat homelessness
Around 700,000 people are homeless in Europe. Over the past ten years, their number has risen by 70 percent. Homelessness is a symptom of failed housing and social policies. Too little is being done about it in the European Union - in Hungary, homelessness has even been criminalized since 2018.
? The most important means of combating homelessness is an EU-wide ban on forced eviction: no one should be put out on the street! The fundamental right to housing must be implemented by the EU and all member states.
? An EU-wide strategy to combat homelessness is needed. It must enable equal access to help, healthcare and social services. Homeless people with foreign citizenship must not be discriminated against!
? Housing First! Homeless and homeless people should be given their own rented accommodation first. This lays the foundation for other social services such as addiction support or job search.
? Apartments instead of camps - no inhumane accommodation of refugees in collective accommodation! Decentralized accommodation in one's own home must become the standard throughout the EU! (See Chapter 5, "The limits of democracy: No Fortress Europe")
Socially just ecological modernization
The building sector is responsible for a large proportion of CO2 emissions: refurbishments and the heating transition are therefore urgent. Social control is needed for a socially just heating transition - otherwise real estate companies will always find ways to increase rents.
? In Germany, the modernization levy must be abolished so that the costs cannot be passed on to tenants.
? No public money to real estate sharks: We want subsidies to be linked to clear social and ecological criteria. A non-profit housing sector guarantees a socially just heating transition.
? The inclusion of the building sector in the European Emissions Trading System (ETS) 2.0, because flat-rate pricing is socially unjust. Tenants have no influence on the heating and refurbishment of their homes. The proposed social climate fund is underfunded and must be increased. We want to use the money to expand the non-profit housing sector.
? In the amendment to the EU Buildings Directive (EPBD), we support EU minimum energy performance standards (MEPS), under which the buildings with the worst energy standards and insulation must be renovated first. An above-average number of low and average earners live in poorly refurbished houses. In such refurbishments, the reduction of greenhouse gases can be practically combined with improvements in everyday life for those who need it most.
? Solutions in existing buildings instead of new buildings! "Build, build, build" is not only ineffective against excessively high rents, but also unecological: excessively expensive apartments are being built and land is being sealed. Priority must be given to solutions for existing buildings. Where living space is scarce, it must also be affordable in new buildings. Sustainable building materials should be used in new builds. This includes recycled materials and wood.
? The heating transition must be implemented locally as a community and is part of public services of general interest. Local authorities are drawing up heating plans and implementing solutions at the settlement level - with heating networks operated by cooperatives or municipal utilities. The focus of the heating transition must be on heat pumps and heating networks. "Green hydrogen" is inefficient and expensive in the heating sector and therefore cannot be a solution.
? We want to create an EU fund for the heat transition that local authorities can access and use to carry out and support local heat planning and energy refurbishments together with citizens.
? Socio-ecological modernization can become a job engine and create hundreds of thousands of jobs: We are committed to good working conditions, higher wages and a training offensive instead of EU-wide dumping of craft wages.
We not only want to modernize our homes, but also our neighborhoods. The energy- efficient refurbishment of urban districts offers the opportunity to redesign public spaces and promote social infrastructure. We make urban policy together with the people: Democracy and participation in urban development, such as in Barcelona, can become the driving force behind socio-ecologically just urban policy.
? The socio-ecological conversion of urban districts is a class issue, because the green districts are the districts of the rich. This is why the focus of redevelopment and funding policy must be on neighborhoods with many social housing units.
? We want to revitalize town centers and put an end to the unecological consumption of land through new greenfield developments! To do this, we need to redesign public spaces - let's take back the villages! We demand that care centers be set up in empty shopping arcades to become the focal point of the villages.
? We want to promote youth centers, community gardens and cultural and urban open spaces without consumer pressure.
Good health and care
All people in the EU must have a right to and access to good healthcare. In reality, however, access to health is unequal: the poor are more likely to suffer from chronic diseases and disabilities. People in poorer member states die almost 10 years earlier on average. With a high level of education in Italy, you can expect to live 17 years longer on average than in Estonia with a low level of education. The market and the pursuit of profit are poor organizing principles in health policy. EU legal acts in health policy must not be based on the principles of free trade and competition. The health policy of the Member States must not be restricted by these principles. As part of public services of general interest, we want to remove care and health from the internal market and EU competition law. (See Chapter 1, "More public wealth: right of way for the public") We want care that is based on people's needs, not on the profitability of their treatment.
We want to transfer hospital and care groups into public ownership. The medical technology and pharmaceutical industries must be geared towards the common good.
? EU policy must set binding minimum standards that are guaranteed to all people living in the EU. These minimum standards should determine the scope and quality of care. Member States that have difficulties in achieving this must receive EU support. Non-profit. Healthcare must be given priority.
? Special needs, for example of people with disabilities, senior citizens or people with language and learning difficulties, must be taken into account. Easy-to-understand language and comprehensible patient information must become a matter of course.
? The Left is committed to cross-border healthcare for all people in Europe. Patients can be left to pay for healthcare services in other EU countries. In Germany, people without a residence permit are excluded from benefits. We want to change this.
? Anyone who is in another member state and needs healthcare there must receive it
- regardless of whether they are employed, unemployed or retired. Access to the healthcare systems of other EU states must be guaranteed via the EHIC (European Health Insurance Card) in a low-threshold and non-discriminatory manner.
? EU citizens who move to another EU country must not be excluded from benefits. This must be prevented by EU law. Die Linke is calling for this discrimination to be abolished in Germany.
? Information, advice and clearing centers must be set up throughout Europe to explain health services and health insurance requirements and ways to obtain health insurance.
? Health care centers must be set up at rest areas throughout Europe. They should primarily offer truck drivers and bus drivers health advice and treatment for job- specific complaints.
? Healthcare services are particularly necessary in disadvantaged urban districts. These services should be interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary, i.e. include various medical disciplines. They should also provide access to medical care, geriatric care and obstetrics as well as social work.
? Outpatient care for people with mental illness must be expanded throughout Europe.
Learning from the pandemic
The corona pandemic has shown that a healthcare system geared towards profit and without reserves is overwhelmed in an emergency. Hospitals are already working at their limits during normal operations. The best way to prevent a pandemic is therefore to fund the healthcare system adequately and in line with demand and end the nursing crisis. People living in poverty, on low incomes, children, the elderly and the sick have suffered particularly badly during the pandemic. This must not happen again. Better prevention is therefore also needed at EU level. Regional cooperation across national borders should be expanded. This will also make our supply systems more responsive in the event of a disaster.
? We want well-organized stockpiling of protective masks, clothing and hygiene products throughout the EU. So that everyone, regardless of income, can be protected as well as possible and doctors and nurses are equipped with the necessary equipment.
? We are committed to EU-wide monitoring in the event of a pandemic, in accordance with uniform standards.
? The pandemic is not yet over for many people: Long Covid and post-vac syndrome need further research and support for those affected.
? A European pandemic council, in which representatives of civil society and trade unions are also represented, is needed to ensure the proportionality of state action in the event of a pandemic. This includes developing strict criteria for border closures and restrictive measures that take fundamental rights into account.
? The Left is committed to fighting global pandemics with global solidarity and supporting poorer countries. To ensure that the World Health Organization (WHO) is independent, it must be better financed by the member states. Stricter rules are needed to prevent influence from corporations and lobby groups.
? Patents can be deadly. We want publicly funded vaccine research with intellectual property rights (e.g. patents) in public hands so that vital vaccines are available to everyone at low cost. The production and distribution of life-saving vaccines must not be subordinated to the profit interests of individual pharmaceutical companies.
Good and affordable care with fair working conditions
The need for care is growing all over Europe and there are too few carers everywhere. The gaps in care and care insurance are giving rise to border-crossing exploitation on the one hand and profits on the other, for example in 24-hour care. The Left is
committed to affordable and good care and to good and fair working conditions.
? We need European minimum standards for wages and working conditions in the care sector with binding staffing ratios (staffing levels).
? Everywhere in Europe, comprehensive long-term care insurance must cover the entire long-term care costs of those insured. The need for long-term care must no longer be a risk of poverty.
? We want to transform 24-hour care into regular employment with social insurance cover, statutory working hours, vacations and a minimum wage.
? We are calling for a public investment offensive for more facilities with good and affordable care, fair working conditions and more staff.
? No profits from care: We want care companies to be prohibited from distributing profits. Surpluses must flow back into care. We want to revoke the listing of care companies on the stock exchange.
? We want to strengthen public and non-profit care providers through more state investment.
? We want to promote local, non-profit care platforms that provide well-trained, collectively paid and socially secure care workers to private households - an alternative to 24-hour care workers.
? Carers should receive additional pension entitlements from their unpaid care work throughout Europe, regardless of their employment status. We want to improve support services for family care throughout the EU.
? Caring relatives also need a vacation. Social long-term care insurance therefore covers the care costs for the person requiring care in Germany for six weeks. We want German long-term care insurance to also cover the costs of foreign long-term care services for vacations in EU countries.
? The training of midwives must be promoted throughout Europe. Outpatient delivery structures and inpatient obstetrics must be strengthened throughout Europe.
? A Europe-wide coordinated training program for healthcare, nursing and obstetrics is needed. The topics of poverty, social disadvantage and social medicine must be essential components of the content in all areas of training.
Free and qualified psychotherapy
Over 200 million people in the EU suffer from a mental illness. That is almost 40 percent of EU citizens. Only half of them receive adequate treatment. There is not enough psychotherapeutic care in any EU country.
Marginalized groups such as the poor or migrants are particularly affected. They have a higher risk of becoming mentally ill due to social conditions. Multiple crises increase this risk for many people. They fall into poverty and hardship as a result of the illness. In the EU, there is neither a uniformly regulated professional title for psychotherapists nor consistent cost coverage by health insurance companies.
? We want uniform standards in the EU for the qualification of psychotherapists. The name should become a protected professional title throughout Europe with comparably high quality standards.
? Psychotherapies must be able to be billed as health insurance benefits throughout the EU.
? We want to put non-physician psychotherapists on an equal footing with physician psychotherapists.
Safe and cost-effective supply of medicines
Bottlenecks in the supply of medicines have been a daily occurrence, and not just since the coronavirus pandemic. One cause is the pharmaceutical industry's strategy of relocating the production of medicines and additives to India or China, for example, for economic reasons. When supply and production chains break down, this creates gaps in supply. We want to strengthen regional economic cycles.
This makes the supply of medicines in the EU safer and the EU as a whole more independent.
? The EU pharmaceutical strategy must focus on ensuring supply. If a supply bottleneck occurs, pharmaceutical companies must demonstrate that the bottleneck was unavoidable for them.
? In the negotiations on the EU Community Code relating to medicinal products for human use, the Left is committed to ensuring that the safeguarding of the supply of medicinal products is defined as an important public service task of the Member States. This public service task must be given priority in EU law over the free internal market.
? Incentives to relocate production capacities to the EU or Germany must be flanked by clear requirements for greater security of supply (diversification of manufacturing and supplier companies, robust supply chains, etc.).
? Pharmaceuticals are often imported from low-price countries to high-price countries, which jeopardizes the security of supply in the exporting countries. EU member states must be empowered to prevent this.
European Health Data Space (EHDS)
A European Health Data Space (EHDS) is being created in the EU. Health data from over 500 million EU citizens is to be collected in national electronic patient records (EPRs).
The collection of data can facilitate and improve medical research and healthcare for citizens throughout Europe. To this end, it is crucial that our data is protected in the best possible way and not released for commercial exploitation. In the global health data market, mass data is coveted by insurance companies, the pharmaceutical industry and big tech companies as the "oil wells" of the future. (See Chapter 2, "Using our data for a better life instead of for profit")
? Together with German and European data protection and patient organizations, Die Linke is calling for the EU regulation to be revised so that medical confidentiality, individual personal rights such as the protection of privacy and the right to informational self-determination are protected.
? The Left rejects any commercial use of EU health data. The data stored in electronic patient files must not be traded for profit. Their use must be oriented towards the common good and serve non-commercial health research. Patients must be able to decide for themselves whether and how their data is used ("opt-in").
? The European Health Data Space must serve exclusively to further develop and improve healthcare for citizens throughout Europe. This is in line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the General Data Protection Regulation.
Decriminalize drugs
The Left is committed t o a Europe-wide paradigm shift in drug policy: away from criminal prosecution and towards prevention, counseling and help. Only a good health and social policy can reduce risks and harm - a ban on drugs cannot do this. It neither prevents drug trafficking nor does it effectively reduce consumption. At the same time, repression ties up large amounts of financial resources:
Several billion euros are spent on criminal prosecution, but only a fraction of that on aid and prevention.
? The EU should support measures in its member states that focus on prevention, help, harm reduction, decriminalization and regulation of drugs.
? The Left is campaigning for EU law and the Schengen Agreement to be amended so that they do not stand in the way of the comprehensive legalization of cannabis in the Member States. Our goal is to legalize cannabis in the EU as a whole.
Taxes against inequality and for a good future
The privatization of public property and services has been driven forward in the EU, which has increased inequality. In the search for quick profits, many rich people and corporations have poured their profits into speculation in real estate, land and care, enriching themselves at the expense of the majority of the population. Rents are shooting through the roof, care costs are rising. Food and energy companies raise prices so high in times of crisis that they make enormous extra profits.
At the same time, many governments in the EU have reduced taxes on companies' assets and profits - including in Germany. People with lower and middle incomes are being taxed more heavily. Corporations are always looking for ways to avoid paying their taxes: The EU states lose around 46 billion euros a year through tax evasion alone. This is unfair and comes at the expense of us all.
The Left says: We can no longer afford the rich! We must involve corporations more in the financing of the common good in order to abolish poverty in the EU, transform the economy socially and ecologically and strengthen public services of general interest.
This requires additional investment through loans (see Chapter 1, "For a strong European community: Redistributing from private to public") and additional revenue through taxes. We believe that the EU and its member states can steer the direction of the EU through taxation. The EU should assume responsibility where national options for action are limited, for example in the taxation of internationally active companies. Where member states have more control, the EU should ensure implementation in the countries. The EU's unanimity principle must be abolished in the area of taxation.
Otherwise, low-tax countries such as Hungary or Ireland will torpedo any progress.
Taxing high assets and inheritances fairly
Fairer taxation of wealth, inheritances and high incomes reduces economic and political power, reduces social inequality and thus strengthens democracy. We can use the higher tax revenues to pay for urgently needed teachers, educators, nurses, social workers and lifeguards at the local swimming pool. We want a Europe-wide corridor for coordinated regulations in the EU member states in order to set minimum taxation for high assets, inheritances and gifts.
? In Germany, we are campaigning for the wealth tax, which has been suspended since 1997, to be levied again. It should apply to assets (minus debts) of 1 million euros or more.
? The tax loopholes in inheritance tax must be closed. The Austrian entrepreneur's son and Red Bull heir Mark Mateschitz inherited 25 billion tax-free last year. The tax rates for these super-rich should be
for inheritances and gifts will be increased and the personal allowances lowered.
? The special costs of the crisis must not burden the current budget and lead to cuts.
? We want to levy a one-off capital levy to tackle the burden of the crisis.
Global minimum tax rates for companies and groups
The finance ministers of the G20 countries have agreed on a global minimum tax rate of 15 percent in 2021. However, this is not enough to effectively prevent tax competition between countries and corporate tax evasion.
? We demand a global minimum tax rate for companies of 25 percent in order to take serious action against tax competition and profit shifting
Taxing crisis profits
Companies such as Total, Shell and RWE have made record profits in the wake of the war in Ukraine thanks to enormous price increases. Such excess profits, which are significantly higher than those of previous years, cannot be attributed to increased performance or innovation, nor to increased added value for society. On the contrary, they show that corporations are exploiting crisis situations to enrich themselves at the expense of the general public. A few benefit and the vast majority have to struggle with the increased prices. We want to redistribute the extra profits to the general public. The Left demands the introduction of an EU-wide excess profits tax of 90 percent for all crisis profits. The excess profits tax should be introduced retroactively and apply permanently. The positive experiences of other countries such as Spain and Greece confirm this: Excess profits can be successfully skimmed off.
? In Germany alone, the taxation of excess profits in the energy sector would have generated up to 102 billion euros in 2022.
? The excess profits tax must be extended to other sectors that profit from war and crises. These include, for example, the arms industry, the banking sector and large online retailers such as Amazon.
Taxing speculative profits
We are fighting for a European financial transaction tax to give speculators a greater share in the financing of the community. The financial transaction tax primarily affects large short-term transactions with small profit margins. It shrinks and stabilizes the financial markets. Computerized high-frequency trading in particular has no benefit for the real economy and consumes vast amounts of energy.
? A tax rate of 0.1 percent is to be levied on every financial transaction. The aim is to introduce this tax worldwide. Until then, a uniform financial transaction tax is needed at EU level. According to the EU Commission, this tax would generate 50 billion euros a year.
? We want to abolish the flat-rate withholding tax in Germany. Instead of a cheap tax on capital gains, they should be subject to normal income tax. Those with high incomes must pay correspondingly higher rates. Minimum tax rates should be agreed in the EU.
Disempowering banks and financial markets
Not enough has been learned from the financial crises: this has been shown by the recent shake-up of the banks, the emergency rescue of Credit Suisse and the collapse of individual financial service providers such as Wirecard. Even 15 years after the collapse of investment bank Lehman Brothers, many of the measures promised during the financial crisis have still not been implemented. A crisis in the financial sector can bring entire countries and social systems to ruin - or "only" investors or customers are damaged and defrauded of billions.
During the financial crisis, many of the banks' debts were transferred to state budgets and "socialized". When the economy is running, profits are privatized. Highly complex financial instruments (e.g. higher-grade derivatives) continue to pose major risks - there is no benefit for the community associated with them.
? The left wants to reduce the financial sector to a serving function for society. The financial markets should be slowed down and their volume massively reduced. Speculation in foodstuffs should be banned. Stricter and lower position limits must be created for trading in agricultural commodity derivatives.
? If ever larger parts of public services are organized privately, high returns must be generated and the financial market takes control. We want to prevent this. We want hospital, care and real estate groups to be delisted from the stock exchange.
? In future, only those financial transactions, services and instruments that also create a macroeconomic and/or social benefit will be permitted. Instead of permitting all financial practices that are not expressly prohibited, as has been the case to date, financial instruments will in future have to be expressly approved by a financial MOT before they can be put into circulation.
? So-called shadow banks such as hedge funds and the "gray" capital market operate outside of conventional regulations. They harbor the risk of new financial crises and are a threat to the global economy. This is why Die Linke advocates strict regulation and financial supervision of shadow banks.
The large investment banks with their risky business can s t i l l r e l y on being rescued at the taxpayer's expense. The newly created instruments for resolving banks in the event of a crisis, including the bank resolution fund, are not realistically designed to deal with acute difficulties in practice. This was already evident in 2017 in the case of the liquidity crisis at Spain's Banco Popular. The rules have no preventive effect in preventing future banking crises. European banks are still too large and too closely linked to other sectors to go bankrupt like any other company that has not done well.
? Banks must be downsized and investment banking must be wound up. As a first step, investment banking should be isolated from the other business areas. Following the example of savings banks and cooperative banks, banks must be transferred to common ownership and democratically managed and controlled.
? All banks should commit to a business model that serves the needs of society and the real economy: 1. payment services, 2. simpler and more secure savings instruments and 3. financing of public and private investments.
? The Left is fundamentally in favor of a European deposit guarantee scheme, but only for institutions and depositors of banks with a similar structure and risk profile in Europe. Savings banks and cooperative banks should not have to answer for the speculative losses of international investment banks.
? We call for the Basel III capital adequacy rules to be fully implemented in order to improve the financial stability of banks.
Making wealth and concentration of power visible
? We want to increase the transparency of assets and are calling for the establishment of an EU asset register (European Asset Registry).
? Europe needs effective transparency rules to be successful in the search for dirty money from crime, corruption and (not only) Russian oligarchs.
? A provision is needed under European law that grants the public access to data from the national transparency registers.
? The blind spots in the international exchange of tax information must be addressed. A first step is increased transparency through public, country-specific reporting (public country-by-country reporting). Corporations must disclose turnover, profits and taxes paid for each country in which they do business.
Drying up tax havens and prosecuting financial crime
At least 90 billion euros in tax revenue is lost every year because profits and assets are "parked" in tax havens. We want to combat money laundering and subsidy fraud more effectively and dry up tax havens - including those "Made in Germany".
? An end to tax avoidance: The race to the bottom must be stopped. If profits are shifted to low-tax jurisdictions, they must be taxed in the individual countries in which the group is active. Corporations must be taxed (more) at the place of their economic activities and sales (withholding tax). This applies in particular to the taxation of excess profits.
? Cut links to tax havens: We want to levy a withholding tax of 50 percent on all payments (dividends, interest and license fees) from companies that flow into non- cooperative states. This will make tax evasion unattractive. Companies may only deduct the tax if all tax-relevant information is disclosed.
? The Left Party is calling for the establishment of a European financial police force to investigate and combat criminal corporate practices such as tax evasion, tax fraud, money laundering and corruption.
? The Left is committed to stricter money laundering regulation for the cross-border online gambling market. There has been a long period of hesitation here and much has been overlooked.
European monetary policy
The Left is calling for the democratization of the European Central Bank (ECB). In addition to the goal of price stability, its mandate should also be extended to full employment and economic development. The ECB must also be allowed to finance government spending so that the artificial insolvency risk of euro states can be eliminated.
is prevented. Even a guarantee for government bonds would de facto make them risk- free. This is because the ECB, as the creator of the euro currency, can never go bankrupt. Only it can be the lender of last resort. There is no inflationary risk because the ECB remains committed to its inflation target of 2 percent.
The UK and Canada provide proof that this works without any problems: The finance ministers there also sell bonds directly to the central bank.
? The EU treaties must be amended to allow the ECB to finance the state.
? In the short term and in accordance with the treaty, this function could also be fulfilled by the purchase of bonds from the European Investment Bank (EIB) and national development banks.
? We want the ECB to be democratically controlled by the European Parliament and no longer subject to the influence of financial lobbyists. Especially in times of financial and economic crises, central banks are key political actors.
? We want democratic control of the ECB. The governing bodies of the ECB - such as the Governing Council, Executive Board and President - should be elected by the European Parliament. The fundamental and long-term objectives of monetary policy should be discussed and decided in Parliament. Especially in times of financial and economic crises and in the socio-ecological transformation, central banks are key players and must be politically controlled.
? The instrument of euro bonds is to be expanded to finance the great need for public investment, including the economic reconstruction of Europe after the coronavirus pandemic and the energy price crisis. If the ECB guarantees these bonds, there is no liability risk. (See Chapter 1, "For a strong European community: Redistributing from private to public")
? In the inflation crisis, the ECB is trying to combat inflation by raising the key interest rate. This does more harm than good: Urgently needed investments are being slowed down and prices are not falling. Part of the inflation is profit-driven and must be combated through fiscal policy. Excessively high corporate profits must be skimmed off with an excess profits tax. (See chapter "Taxing crisis profits").
? We want to link the interest rates for savers to the interest rates of banks so that they can pass on the rising prime rate and not make money from savers.
? We are calling for a cap on overdraft interest rates: the interest rate for overdraft facilities and overdrafts may not be more than 5 percentage points above the ECB's key interest rate. In this way, we protect people who are on the edge of subsistence and have to use their overdraft facilities frequently.
No power to the internet giants: Putting BigTechs in their place
Money and currency must remain part of state sovereignty; we reject creeping privatization. Internet giants (Amazon and Co) and financial technology companies (e.g. PayPal or N26) must be subject to the same rules and laws that apply to conventional financial service providers (e.g. banks and insurance companies).
? The Left is in favor of the introduction of a digital euro by the ECB. The digital euro should be a legal tender guaranteed by the ECB, which private individuals can hold to a limited extent and without interest in current accounts at the ECB. Only with a public alternative to the payment systems of the major
We can counteract the enormous financial technology and data power of Internet companies and credibly enforce a European level of data protection. The technical conditions must be created to ensure anonymous payments, at least for small amounts.
EU taxonomy and sustainable investments
The Left Party advocates a binding evaluation and classification system (taxonomy) for financial investments at European level so that sustainable investments can be identified transparently. In addition to climate protection, social aspects must also be given greater consideration and mapped using strict criteria. The guiding principle should be the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
? Investments in nuclear or gas energy are not sustainable and must be removed from the EU taxonomy. We reject greenwashing with the EU taxonomy: for example, the inclusion of conventional ships and aircraft or offsetting measures for biodiversity loss.
? Public banks, such as the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the Kreditanstalt fr den Wiederaufbau (KfW), should only be allowed to make sustainable investments. The ECB must not continue to buy up bonds from companies with high CO2 emissions and thereby undermine climate protection. It needs strong social and ecological standards and must live up to its responsibility in promoting climate protection.
Chapter 2: Restructuring the economy in a socially and ecologically just way
The economy must serve the people. It should satisfy our needs and not the greed of shareholders for profit. Decisions on investment and production must finally be made democratically and not be left to a few super-rich in society. After all, we have to tackle the greatest challenge facing humanity this century: the ecological crisis caused by climate change, the destruction of nature and the scarcity of resources. The EU is responding to this with a green-liberal modernization strategy: tax breaks for the climate-neutral conversion of companies and technological innovation are intended to create new green profit opportunities. New green markets are to be created. But the costs are borne by the citizens.
This is opposed by national conservative and extreme right-wing parties. They deny the ecological crisis and promise "business as usual" in fossil capitalism, with oil and gas imports from dictatorships, dirty brown coal and an industry that can continue to make a profit at the expense of people and nature.
We do not want a green-painted capitalism that further exacerbates social injustice. The coronavirus pandemic and the war in Ukraine have shown the vulnerability of supply chains and transnational networks (such as pipelines and the SWIFT international payment system). The globalized economy is extremely susceptible to crises. The USA, China and the EU are vying for supremacy in the production of green technologies and are trying to divide the world into spheres of influence. Intensified competition, trade wars, rearmament, violent conflicts and even wars are further exacerbating the ecological crisis. Scarce resources and financial means, which are urgently needed to restructure the economy, are also being squandered in an economic arms race. Each power bloc is trying to become the market leader for green technologies and outdo the competition. As a result, we are losing time and resources in the fight against the climate catastrophe and putting human lives at risk.
We say: The way out of climate catastrophe, international escalation and social inequality begins with a fundamentally different economic policy. Cosmetic corrections are not enough. Our society needs a socially and ecologically just economic turnaround. We put people's well-being before profits!
In its economic policy, the European Union has so far focused on more profit for companies, more market and more competition. It has limited public ownership, public management and public control. Every local authority is aware of the need to put contracts and services out to tender in such a way that any provider in the EU can apply. The winners are usually the lowest bidders at the expense of people and the environment. The socio-ecological transformation also requires a change in tendering policy that not only creates standardized products and services. The opportunities to obtain tenders for new, innovative solutions must be expanded.
The coronavirus pandemic has shown us the shortcomings of the market: too few masks, vaccines and air filters for schools. Supply chains collapsed because there were too few regional economic cycles, too little regional production and it took too long to have urgently needed things produced. We want to change that. A strong, independent economy in the EU must mean that we steer industry towards a socially and ecologically just future with good work
and good wages and we strengthen regional economic cycles: we want to produce primarily where things are consumed. We are driving forward the sustainable raw materials transition and the agricultural transition.
For Die Linke, it is clear that the economic turnaround can only succeed together with employees. Only with an expansion of democracy and co-determination, with new perspectives on sensible and climate-friendly (industrial) production, with social security systems that protect against poverty, can courage and hope for a better life grow out of fear of change. Transformation then means a gain in quality of life. Our goal is a good life for all - not profit for the few.
Transforming the industry fairly
The economy can only be restructured in a climate-friendly way with state intervention. It is time for economic policy to move away from neoliberal myths and focus on public investment for a socially and ecologically just economy.
With the NextGenerationEU investment programme, the EU has taken out loans on a large scale for the first time (750 billion euros), which are to be invested primarily in greening and digitalization. The EU's "Green Deal" is intended to be a key driver of innovation and growth for industry and the economy and secure Europe a leading role in the competition for the green technologies of the future. The EU Commission has responded to the USA's major investment program (the Inflation Reduction Act) with its own legislation (the Net Zero Industry Act). However, the EU's "Green Deal" is not even sufficient to achieve the climate targets it has set itself. The EU's investment programmes are primarily aimed at improving the competitiveness of corporations and maximizing their profits.
The EU's goal is green-painted capitalism. Nothing should change in the distribution of profits and wages, of private and public and of social wealth. The EU's industrial aid is not linked to labor law and social criteria - this is even different in the USA.
Instead, the Left is committed to the social and ecological restructuring of industry in the EU. There will be no "green capitalism". We need an industry that preserves the planet for our children, that strengthens democracy and co-determination in the restructuring process and does not dismantle them, and that makes everyday life better for everyone. We can achieve this with an active industrial policy that creates good jobs, protects the climate and focuses on sensible and sustainable production. We want an industrial policy that builds, rebuilds and dismantles. And at the same time strengthen public ownership and co-determination. We want to close tax loopholes and levy a minimum tax on transnational corporations. (See Chapter 1, "Taxes against inequality and for a good future") Subsidies and investment aid for a CO2-free industry must be linked to social conditions for good work, collective bargaining, concrete employment figures, training quotas and location guarantees. Companies that cut jobs must pay back subsidies. No companies in tax havens outside the EU should be subsidized. Industrial subsidies must be tied to clear social, ecological and labor law criteria. Dividend payouts must be prohibited when state bailout money is used.
? With the help of contracts for difference and climate protection contracts (CCfDs), we want to promote climate-friendly technology in the conversion and equipping of production facilities and protect employment: Energy-intensive industrial companies receive financial aid for
the conversion to low-carbon production in the amount of the difference between the CO2 avoidance costs and the CO2 certificate price. In this way, industrial companies remain competitive during the transformation and employment can be protected.
? European state aid law will be amended: The Temporary Crisis Framework (TCF) already adopted by the EU must be extended and made permanent. Procedures must be accelerated overall.
? In particular, the competition and state aid regulations in Articles 101 and 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) must be amended: Exceptions under antitrust and subsidy law must be permitted if the aid serves the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). And/or if the aid makes a significant contribution to the social and ecological transformation of the economy.
? The rules for awarding public contracts must be changed so that municipalities and other public clients are allowed to tender and make decisions based on social, labor and environmental criteria. Public money will only be awarded for good work and compliance with collective bargaining agreements. (See Chapter 1, "For strong municipalities")
? We want to introduce an intra-European solidarity mechanism to support the industry of financially weaker member states if the law on state aid is relaxed. The solidarity mechanism is intended to prevent economic imbalances in the EU from becoming even more pronounced because countries such as Germany or France can organize higher levels of financial aid.
? The European Commission's strategic funding projects, IPCEIs (Important Projects of Common European Interests), must be expanded and at the same time linked to stricter environmental and social criteria. In addition to semiconductors, green hydrogen and batteries, new industrial conglomerates and clusters must also be established for wind and solar power. Research into leap innovations in nanotechnology and climate technology in particular must be closely linked to these locations. An IPCEI project must also be put out to tender for a European rail and local transport network as well as for the production and maintenance of the necessary trains and buses.
? Funds for research and development to strengthen a regional industrial structure are to be controlled by regional economic and transformation councils in which, in addition to the regional government and companies, trade unions, environmental and social associations also have equal voting rights.
Many companies in the EU do not have the size and financial resources to cope with the tasks of transformation. For this reason, direct state participation in companies must also be made possible under European law with the aim of accelerating the socio- ecological transformation and implementing new forms of economic democracy.
? The Left Party is calling for the establishment of a European industrial foundation. Financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB), the foundation should specifically acquire shares in companies that play a key role in the transformation and steer the climate-neutral transition. European public control will undermine the neoliberal logic of competition in the EU, in which corporations are positioned against each other as "national champions". Stronger public control through ownership shares can also counteract the formation of monopolies.
? The establishment of a socio-ecological public industrial structure ensures that not only the costs of the transformation are borne by the people of Europe, but that the profits flow back to the public purse and thus
be subject to democratic control. The workforce and society as a whole can have a greater say in investment and production decisions.
Structural change on site together with the people
The socio-ecological restructuring of industry affects European regions differently. In particular, regions where coal is mined or cars are produced are facing major challenges. The change will be at the expense of employees and local people if no countermeasures are taken. There are a large number of support programs at EU level. We are simplifying them and focusing on a uniform transformation strategy.
Transformation funding benefits people in the regions and is linked to social and ecological criteria. Companies must offer their employees new job prospects when they reorganize their production structure. They must be given the opportunity to transition into "green" jobs and occupations that are in demand (for example in care or public transport).
? We call for the Just Transition Fund to be expanded: Not only coal regions, but all regions affected by the transition should be supported. This applies in particular to regions affected by the necessary restructuring of the automotive industry. (See Chapter 3, "More mobility with less traffic")
? In the regions affected by structural change, we want to set up economic and transformation councils that have access to the money from the transformation funds and shape the transformation on the ground. (See Chapter 2, "Transforming industry")
The European structural and funding policy is intended to achieve social equality between the regions. However, the EU Cohesion Report of 2022 shows that this is hardly measurable. Funding must be aimed more consistently at greater social equality! This is possible if funding is geared more towards public and non-profit- oriented services of general interest. Although Germany pays a lot into the EU, the (eastern) German regions also benefit in particular from EU cohesion policy and the EU structural funds. Without the European funds, many projects in the municipalities could not have been realized.
? We want to better equip the EU Structural Funds. This will strengthen local authorities and public services of general interest as the foundation of a socially and ecologically just society.
Strengthening regional economic cycles
We want to reduce the distance between producers and consumers: Preference should also be given to production where consumption takes place. This will make supply chains shorter and more ecological. Instead of sending industrial components across Europe to exploit the cheapest wages, we want to strengthen integrated production processes. This secures local jobs and strengthens the regions away from the metropolitan areas. The following applies: production as local as possible, as global as necessary!
By promoting regional tourism, we save on traffic. With the energy transition, we produce electricity locally instead of turning Spain into a photovoltaic park for Europe. The agricultural transition will create and strengthen local supply structures instead of promoting industrial agriculture.
? We strengthen social and ecological criteria in public tenders, procurements and subsidies: We take into account transportation emissions as well as local training and employment rates, thereby supporting local companies.
? We strengthen regional products and distribution structures by linking production and distribution cooperatives. Grassroots movements that want to establish regional value creation structures should benefit from EU regional funds.
? Revitalize the town centers: We promote social centers everywhere in the EU! Social centers are the starting point for new neighborly communities and serve as meeting places. They are spaces for basic services such as the post office and bank, civic initiatives and drinking coffee together. We want to revitalize marketplaces and strengthen the retail sector. We want to promote weekly markets with local producers to provide healthy and sustainable products close to home.
In principle, we want to strengthen public investment in non-profit services and public services of general interest. The idea of a community with public spaces and services for social inclusion and integration must be strengthened in the European social model.
For the socio-ecological raw materials transition
The socially and ecologically just restructuring of our economy must use raw materials more sustainably. Metal production has almost tripled worldwide since 2000. More than 93.5 percent of the metal extracted from the earth worldwide is iron, primarily for energy-intensive steel production. Resource extraction is reaching its natural limits.
The production of green technologies is also dependent on many raw materials that are not available in sufficient quantities in the EU o r that have not yet been extracted in the EU. The dependence on imports of rare earths and metals is particularly high. By 2050, for example, the EU will need 60 times more lithium than it does today. The consumption of raw materials such as graphite or cobalt could increase 15-fold by 2050.
There is a threat of increasing geopolitical conflicts over dwindling resources. At the same time, more and more energy is needed to extract the resources. Mining often takes place under unacceptable conditions: Human rights are violated, water is contaminated and the environment is destroyed. This is the price we pay for our hunger for raw materials. To protect the climate and the natural limits of our ecosystem, the extraction of raw materials must therefore be reduced.
? The consumption of primary raw materials in the EU must fall by 10 percent by 2030.
? We combine climate protection and the reduction of metallic raw materials: We are driving forward the mobility transition (see chapter 3, "More mobility with less traffic") and building a European circular economy.
? We anchor and strengthen human rights and environmental standards in all EU laws.
? We do not want mining in nature conservation areas. The local population must be involved in mining projects and value creation. We want to ban deep sea mining internationally. The EU should campaign for a moratorium.
? The mass production of green technology must not be based on the exploitation of nature and people in the countries of the Global South. We do not want "green colonialism". To this end, we are calling for stronger supply chain legislation and the inclusion of strong social and environmental standards in EU trade agreements. (See chapter 4, "Fair trade policy: cooperation instead of competition")
? We want to further restrict the trade in illegally harvested timber through strict rules and internationally coordinated controls and institutions.
More circular economy, less waste
The raw materials transition can only succeed if more utilized resources are fed back into production, thus creating a circular economy. Capitalist exploitation with its inherent compulsion for unlimited growth has led us into a throwaway society: New products are bought more quickly if the old ones break faster or can no longer be repaired or updated. We need to force the unleashed market back into social and ecological channels: stop pointless production. We want to get out of the throwaway society and into the circular economy, for which we need stricter requirements for durability. No predetermined breaking points! Our goal is to make products last as long as possible. We want to repair and reuse instead of throwing away. If something has to be disposed of, it should be recycled in the best possible way so that we can return valuable raw materials t o	the cycle.
Take smartphones, for example: on average, people in Germany buy a new device every three years. That's around 22 million per year. Permanently installed batteries, missing updates for older devices and glued individual parts that make repairs difficult tempt people to buy new ones. Only 45% of old devices arrive at a recycling center, and the products are built in such a way that the valuable rare earths can only be recovered at great expense. A profitable business for manufacturers at the expense of sustainability.
? The Left Party demands: higher statutory recycling quotas and higher recyclate use quotas in the EU.
? We want to extend the eco-design specifications for products to create requirements for durability, updateability, upgradeability, reparability, reusability and recyclability.
? We want manufacturers to be responsible for the costs of taking back, transporting, refurbishing or disposing of their products.
Avoid waste
Around 33 million tons of waste are exported from the EU every year. The waste often ends up in countries in the Global South, where it is disposed of and processed under dramatic social and ecological conditions. We want to combat the already illegal dumping of electronic waste (e-waste) more intensively.
? We want to reduce the volume of waste overall: To this end, we are also calling for a reduction in disposable packaging for vendors and a standardized deposit system for disposable and reusable drinks bottles in the EU.
? We want to ban waste exports from the EU.
? Waste treatment and waste disposal must be publicly owned as part of the provision of basic needs. They must not be privatized. If privatization has already taken place, Die Linke will fight for remunicipalization. This is the only way to guarantee social and ecological waste management.
? We are committed to using usable waste free of charge. We want to legalize food rescue - so-called containerization. We want to drastically reduce the generation of food waste. (See chapter 2, "For socio-ecological agriculture").
For socio-ecological agriculture
One third of EU funds are made available for agriculture. Agriculture has been liberalized in the EU and by the EU. The reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) has not been used to advance the overdue socio-ecological restructuring of agriculture and rural areas to the extent required. Above all, it secures the profits of agricultural corporations. Large parts of agriculture are partly responsible for the loss of biodiversity. The EU must abandon its focus on competition and exports. Instead, regional production, processing and value creation that are environmentally friendly, healthier and socially responsible should be promoted. A prerequisite for vibrant rural areas is the development of local food strategies and a regional circular economy in cooperation with all stakeholders.
? Agricultural subsidies, especially the so-called area premiums, must be used according to social, ecological and welfare-oriented criteria and for a sustainable restructuring of agriculture and food.
? Good work in agriculture with nationwide statutory minimum wages: Jobs subject to social insurance contributions must also be the norm for family members and seasonal workers. We want to expand support for young farmers. We want to replace the CAP's flat-rate support for young farmers throughout the EU with support that is not tied to specific areas.
? Land must not be turned into an object of speculation. We want to ban land grabbing
- including through non-transparent share deals - and safeguard food sovereignty.
? The land market needs transparency. To achieve this, we want to make land registers public.
? We demand an EU land law that ensures a socially just distribution of agricultural land and soil fertility. State lease contracts must be awarded according to social and ecological criteria. We want to introduce a rent and purchase price brake that facilitates access to land for people with little or no money, land owners who work for the common good and agricultural start-ups.
? We demand a land fund so that the public stock grows. Public land must not be further privatized.
? More bees, more beetles, for insect-friendly agriculture: We want to drastically reduce the use of chemical pesticides and chemical weed killers. We reject the idea of dividing areas into protective and dirty areas. Plant protection products and multiple crop rotations must be reduced. We advocate the basic principle of integrated plant protection: Priority for biological, breeding, cultivation and cultivation technology measures over chemical agents.
? We oppose an extension of the approval for glyphosate, which has been classified by the WHO as probably carcinogenic. We demand a ban on the production and export of highly hazardous active ingredients for plant protection products. The monopolies and oligopolies in the seed, agrochemical and fertilizer industries, in food production and in the food trade must be broken up. We want to promote the development of safe plant protection methods.
? Forests in the EU must be preserved and managed sustainably. We want to reforest more according to ecological criteria.
? We are calling for binding criteria and controls for animal husbandry on farms and are campaigning for a ban on cages. We have successfully fought for this with the European citizens' initiative against cages, now it must become law. We want to shape the transition to climate-, environment- and animal welfare-friendly livestock farming in a socially just way with diversification and debt relief programs.
? Live animal transports must be restricted. We want to completely ban the transportation of animals over four hours and to third countries.
? We demand a ban on fur farming in line with the successful EU Citizens' Initiative 2023.
? We demand voluntary exit programs for farmers from animal husbandry.
? We advocate the expansion of premiums in agriculture for the planting of pulses, for the promotion of consumption and for the upgrading of soils. This is part of a protein strategy and a sustainable arable farming concept.
? We want to develop a comprehensive support and training program for farmers that provides financial support and creates knowledge for the socio-ecological agricultural transition.
? We want to reduce feed imports. There must be no speculation with food. We want to ban the import of biofuels from foodstuffs such as maize and grain into the EU (and Germany).
? Food speculation, which makes a few rich people richer, must be banned so that people in Europe and around the world do not go hungry because of high food prices.
? There must be a fair distribution of profit and risk in the production chain. Producers who bear the greatest risk must also receive the greatest profit. In this way, food remains affordable and can be produced to cover costs.
? Legal conditions must be created for fair negotiations between farmers and food retailers on general conditions, delivery terms and prices.
? We are committed to EU-wide transparent and reliable origin, sustainability and regional labeling (Sustainable Food System Law).
? 80 percent of the population reject genetic engineering on their plates. We reject the cultivation of transgenic plants in agriculture, including so-called new genomic techniques, and patents on seeds, plants, animals and other life. They endanger biodiversity and increase the dependence of producers on overpowering global market players. The EU's planned suspension of general labeling for the majority of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) must be prevented. Otherwise, consumers will no longer have a choice. The precautionary principle must once again take precedence over the principle of innovation.
? We need a Europe-wide anti-discard law: an immediate ban on discarding food suitable for consumption in all areas of the value chain.
? Together with the alliance "We're fed up", Die Linke is calling for the EU to promote animal, climate and environmentally friendly agriculture in future and for farmers who implement this to receive good working conditions and fair prices.
Overall, the agricultural turnaround must be geared towards making healthy and affordable food available to everyone in the EU without destroying the opportunities of future generations or people in other countries.
Digitization is fair
The EU has made digitalization one of its priorities and wants to use billions of euros of public money to promote the development, dissemination and use of digital technologies at all levels. This is not about technologies for a fair online world for all or for good social and climate-friendly public services. The aim is to help the European IT industry to play a leading role in international competition. To this end, IT research centers and IT companies are to be promoted, sufficient areas of application are to be developed and databases are to be made usable in order to enable product development and create markets for these applications. European IT companies should be able to compete with American and Chinese companies. Without regulation, there is a threat of increasing surveillance, greater social division, the dismantling of social rights and the further erosion of public services - all in the interests of the corporations. The high energy and resource consumption of digital applications threatens to accelerate the climate collapse. We are committed to ensuring that digitalization contributes to solving societal problems instead of focusing primarily on profits and control.
Freeing the Internet from corporations
We stand for a radical rethink towards platforms oriented towards the common good and truly social networks instead of profit machines and platform capitalism. The internet giants Facebook (Meta), Google (Alphabet), Amazon and Co control 70 to 80 percent of the entire digital market and design their offerings in the interests of their own profits. Real freedom of choice, freedom of opinion and informational self- determination are lost in the process. Alternative offerings have hardly stood a chance so far. The EU regulation on digital markets is intended to eliminate this imbalance, but its rules do not have to be complied with for another three years and not all monopolies are covered. With clear rules and support concepts, we are countering the corporate Internet with concepts geared towards the common good. We want to gradually free the digital world from capitalism.
? In order to take action against the unscrupulous business models of companies, we are campaigning for a ban on tracking and personalized advertising.
? Online services must work across different providers, have open interfaces and it must be possible to transfer your own data to other providers.
? We want to promote public and cooperative platforms for services for the common good, for example an app for Europe-wide mobility services, for fair room rentals ("Fairbnb") and a care platform with cooperative and non-profit care providers.
? Free software must be permanently promoted, especially for universal basic software and open standards. Software financed with public money must be open software. This applies above all to public administration and public companies.
Artificial intelligence that benefits everyone
Over the next ten years, the EU intends to spend a lot of money on promoting the development and market for AI applications. Many of the AI applications known to the public are primarily for the profit of companies and have little added value for society. At the same time, they are sometimes associated with high risks. Consumer protection and ethical standards can only be ensured if the algorithms are comprehensible - something that companies generally have no interest in. We want to promote AI applications that can be expected to benefit society. In other areas, we want to limit or prevent the use of AI. This is because the energy consumption for AI is also huge, especially in the development phase. Its widespread use is rarely possible in an energy- saving way.
? The EU should promote research into socially useful applications of artificial intelligence and publicly fund critical research into the risks of artificial intelligence.
? In sensitive areas, explainability, traceability of processes, transparency of how decisions are made and transparency of the data used to train the AI must be guaranteed.
? Decisions that are made by AI and have an impact on humans must always be comprehensible and open to objection (and not by an AI instance or chat software).
? AI systems that violate fundamental rights must be banned: We want to ban automated facial recognition and behavioral classification in publicly accessible spaces.
? No AI systems that evaluate performance, learning or social behavior may be used in schools.
Using our data for a better life instead of for profit
Every action on the internet reveals our preferences to corporations and makes us (more) predictable and controllable. With its data strategy, the EU wants to make masses of additional data usable for research and IT development and promote a "single market for data". In addition to data from networked household appliances, this also includes health data in the European Health Data Space, mobility data and data from public administrations. This data is often highly sensitive and fundamentally affects the protection of privacy. In the hands of employers or insurance companies, it can jeopardize people's livelihoods. In the hands of media corporations or surveillance authorities, they (already) enable manipulation and jeopardize democracy, freedom of opinion and freedom of assembly. The collection, storage and use of this data must therefore be strictly limited and controlled in the interests of personal rights and the common good. This is in tension with companies' interest in being able to use as much data as possible for as many applications as possible - including those yet to be explored. Companies don't just use our data to develop voice computers or cancer drugs. They also use this data to develop business models in order to tap into new sources of profit in public budgets and to compete with previously publicly provided services (in the transport sector, for example, Uber, Moia and co). We want to ensure that data is protected and used exclusively for public welfare purposes.
? Purpose limitation of data use: Health data, for example, may only be used for health research, not for personalized advertising. (See Chapter 1, "European Health Data Space (EHDS)")
? Data may only go to recipients who have a proven interest and competence in research, not to Google or Palantir.
? Common good clause: Research must serve the common good, not just the profit interests of companies.
? Research on socially important issues must be publicly funded.
? The results of publicly funded research must be publicly accessible. It must not be the case that the results of publicly funded research are protected by patents and have to be bought back from the public at great expense.
? We reject the concept of data as tradable property. It must be possible to transfer data from networked devices to devices from other manufacturers; standard formats and access rights to this data are fundamental to this. Independent workshops must have access to the data, just as users must have full sovereignty over personal data.
Chapter 3 Climate justice
We are already feeling the dramatic change in the climate. Forest fires, water shortages, droughts and hot summers are becoming the norm. It's not just the climate catastrophe: The planet's ecological system is threatening to collapse. Careless economic activity is overstepping natural boundaries and putting profit first - rather than the needs of people and our survival on the planet.
Are we all in the same boat? No: some people finance a parallel world. Are we all equally responsible? No. The ecological footprint is extremely unevenly distributed. This is true between rich and poor countries, for the rich and the poor of the world - and also within the European Union. The richest 1 percent of the population in Germany emits 35 times as much CO2 as the poorest. 800 super-rich people in Germany have CO2 emissions that are 1,000 times higher than the average German. At the same time, the poor are most affected by environmental change and pollution.
Those who own wealth are better able to protect themselves from heat, drought and flooding. The poor cannot. The destruction of nature threatens our material livelihoods and is also becoming a class issue in Germany.
The policies of the EU Commission and the traffic light government in Germany will not succeed in achieving the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement. More courage is needed for a socially just and ecologically sustainable transformation: We need clear regulations and guidelines, especially for corporations. In particular, we need to restructure the sectors that have not yet contributed to achieving the climate targets: Transport and housing. In both cases, powerful corporate interests are putting the brakes on restructuring. The Left advocates a socially and ecologically just transformation: We protect tenants and people on low and middle incomes from the costs. We create alternatives for more mobility and a better quality of life in cities and villages. The transition to renewable energies must go hand in hand with affordable and socially scaled prices and must not exclude large companies from the rules. On the contrary: those who pollute the most must be regulated the most. Many things in our lives will change. We need to fundamentally reorganize the way we do business, how we live, work and spend our leisure time. The policies of the EU and the German government mean that people who have no alternative to a car have to pay a higher price for petrol and diesel. Tenants who do not have the option of changing their heating are forced to pay higher heating costs.
At the same time, the super-rich can continue to jet around the world unhindered and heat their villas because they don't mind the additional costs. As a result, acceptance of climate protection measures is dwindling.
We want to make the super-rich more responsible. Many people feel let down by the government's misguided policies in the energy crisis. Right-wing politicians are trying to use this to create a mood against climate protection. But energy prices have not risen because of climate protection, but because the energy companies have seen an opportunity to make extra profits from the war. And because the European electricity market is structured in a way that favors extra profits. Only with public money could the horrendous prices of the corporations be fended off. What is needed: more public ownership in the energy supply sector and more guidelines for pricing. The market will not fix it, we have to set limits to the market. We are making the socio-ecological transformation together with the employees. We are strengthening co-determination and campaigning for
a binding job and income guarantee for employees. We want a regional supply system that is oriented towards the common good: expanding free public transport for users as an alternative to the car. Locally produced, inexpensive renewable energy supply; industry that focuses on producing ecologically sensible things in a socially just way: Streetcars instead of electric SUVs, heat pumps instead of hydrogen heaters. This will create prosperity and a better quality of life for all instead of the few: The ecological transformation is a social transformation or it will not succeed.
Energy: how to do it fairly
The EU has tightened climate legislation over the past four years. The targets for emissions reduction and energy efficiency have been tightened. Dependence on fossil fuel imports is to be reduced. However, the measures are not enough to meet the 1.5 degree target in the Paris Climate Agreement. They are not geared towards the EU's remaining CO2 budget. G e r m a n y , of all countries, with its green energy and economics minister, is blocking action at key points. The sector targets were abolished in the German Climate Protection Act and new gas overcapacities are being created with the expansion of LNG - the energy transition is being slowed down.
We want to make the EU climate-neutral by 2040. The EU's current plans are not enough to achieve this. In order to combat climate change and implement the Paris climate targets, greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced quickly. Otherwise, the total amount of CO2 emissions will exceed the remaining budget available to the EU. To achieve this, the targets for the share of renewable energies, the reduction of greenhouse gases and energy efficiency for 2030 must be tightened.
? The share of renewable energies in consumption in the EU should increase to at least 50 percent by 2030. Primary energy consumption in the EU is to fall by 40 percent by 2030 compared to the year 2000. The targets must be translated into binding national targets for each member state.
? EU emissions of climate-damaging greenhouse gases must be reduced by at least 70 percent by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, and by 90 to 95 percent by 2040. To ensure that all member states comply with this limit, there are to be binding CO2 budgets for each member state, which can be used to regularly review the pathways for reducing emissions.
? By 2035, 100 per cent of electricity generation in the entire EU must consist of renewable energies and be organized as decentrally as possible. This is technically possible, as studies have shown. But these goals can only be achieved if they are supported by effective regulatory measures and a historic investment program. (See Chapter 1, "For a strong European community: Redistributing from private to public")
Energy transition socially just instead of energy market
The EU Commission's climate and energy policy relies primarily on the market. But the market is not regulating it: electricity prices are exploding while corporations are enriching themselves. Energy poverty in the EU is on the rise. Emissions trading has been extended to the transport and heating sectors - this will place an even greater burden on people in the EU. Emissions trading fails to address the problem that most emissions are caused by corporations and people with a lot of money. The Left is committed to clear guidelines and wants to promote sustainable alternatives more strongly: with public money,
which then also leads to public ownership and participation. Publicly owned energy supplies will make affordable and socially differentiated prices possible. We are fighting for a supply of electricity and heat that is not in the hands of corporations, but of citizens, municipalities and cooperatives. We want to organize their generation and distribution as decentrally as possible and as centrally as necessary. The EU's internal energy market routes electricity and gas throughout Europe and markets it via exchanges. We, on the other hand, want electricity from municipal utilities and local solar and wind power plants.
? Price controls instead of electricity rip-offs: We want to create low-cost base tariffs for the average consumption of electricity and heating energy. Electricity prices must be more closely monitored, controlled and made more socially just. In Germany, we are calling for an energy tax for the rich to finance socially just prices.
? The aim of the electricity market system must be to make affordable electricity available to all consumers instead of allowing corporations to make profits. A small number of expensive power plants powered by fossil fuels must no longer be allowed to set the prices for the entire electricity market.
? We reject the merit order principle in its current form. A climate-friendly electricity market system must exclude unproductive excess profits. Should they nevertheless occur due to external shocks, they must be consistently skimmed off.
? Excess profit tax for crisis profiteers: We want to introduce a permanent minimum tax of 90 percent on the excess profits of fossil fuel companies. Investments in renewable energies may be offset. To ensure that the profits of oil companies can also be effectively taxed, we want to introduce a withholding tax and dry up tax havens. (See chapter 1,
"Taxes against inequality and for a good future")
? Energy independence through public ownership: Most of our future energy supply still has to be built. The public sector should be heavily involved in the development of renewable energies. In this way, we can bring large parts of energy production back into public hands. Massive investments are needed to (re)locate wind turbines and solar factories in the EU.
? Electricity, heating and gas grids in the EU member states must be transferred to public ownership, democratically controlled and coordinated at European level with the help of remunicipalization. Municipalities can draw on the EU remunicipalization fund to be set up for this purpose. (See Chapter 1, "The money is there: Let's get the wealth back!")
? The Left Party wants to reform the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS 1) so that the quantity of certificates is limited to the EU's residual CO2 budget in order to achieve the Paris targets.
? Energy-intensive industry will receive free emission allowances for another ten years. That is too long! The free certificates must be reduced as quickly as possible - in return, the EU border adjustment mechanism (CBAM) must be adjusted accordingly. An active industrial policy is needed for the climate-neutral restructuring of industry, instead of unpaid extra profits through free certificates. (See chapter 2, "Restructuring industry fairly")
Fighting energy poverty and energy cuts
The EU has decided to extend emissions trading to the heating and transport sectors (ETS-2). We reject this: instead, binding climate targets and emission limits must be set. Funding programs and state infrastructure programs must support the conversion in the sectors. We need a legally regulated framework in the heating and transport sectors for more social justice and a faster ecological transition.
? The Left Party is calling for more money for the Climate Social Fund to compensate for injustice caused by price increases. We reject the link to the ETS- 2.
? In Germany, we are calling for a climate money as a direct payment to support households with low and medium incomes.
? Electricity, gas, water and heating must not be cut off. We want to ban energy cuts that affect low-income households and introduce a low-cost basic quota for electricity, water and heating.
Socially just heat transition
The building sector is responsible for a large proportion of greenhouse gases in the EU. A heating transition is therefore urgently needed to achieve a climate-neutral heating supply by 2040: Buildings must be refurbished and heating systems converted. (See Chapter 1, "Socially just ecological modernization") This must be affordable and must not become an additional burden for tenants and homeowners on low and middle incomes!
? Investment offensive: 14 million fossil heating systems in Germany alone need to be replaced by heat pumps or local and district heating networks. To achieve this, production must be ramped up across Europe - in line with the common good and in accordance with high social, collective bargaining and ecological standards.
? ETS-2 makes gas heating systems a cost trap for consumers. We need support programs that are graduated according to income to ensure that low- and middle- income households do not incur any additional costs when replacing their heating system with a heat pump. For climate protection reasons, heating with natural gas, coal, oil and peat must be phased out across Europe. To this end, the EU must set binding requirements for the replacement of gas heating systems via the Ecodesign Directive, create planning security and set up a social financing program.
? Municipal utilities, municipal energy suppliers and cooperative initiatives must be supported in the development of heating networks through a massive funding program.
? In order to make heating prices independent of market fluctuations and speculation, we are calling for a profit ban in the heating sector. This means that the heat price must not be higher than the actual heat generation costs.
? There are a variety of solutions for the heating transition: Heat pumps for single- family homes, local and district heating networks in dense urban areas. For solutions at district and settlement level, instead of developing concepts house by house, we need mandatory municipal heat planning throughout the EU and a massive funding program!
? Hydrogen cannot provide a comprehensive solution in the heating sector - in this case, hydrogen is energetically inefficient and too expensive.
The future is renewable
Conservative and liberal parties - driven by the fossil fuel lobby - are constantly trying to push through so-called technology neutrality in climate policy. What sounds good quickly turns out to be a strategy to slow down the energy transition and secure further profits for fossil fuel-exploiting corporations and outdated business models: be it for underground CO2 injection, e-fuels for cars or nuclear power. The Left is committed to a consistent energy transition towards renewable energy sources. No false technical solutions!
? No permanent structures for transitional solutions: No new, permanent infrastructure should be created for liquefied natural gas (LNG) and natural gas. We want to limit floating storage and regasification units (FSRUs) to what is necessary for security of supply.
? We are calling for an EU-wide ban on fracking. LNG obtained through fracking must not be imported.
? For a Europe-wide phase-out of nuclear energy: For over 65 years, the EU has been promoting and spreading nuclear energy in Europe with billions in taxpayers' money through the Treaty on the European Atomic Energy Community (EU RATOM). Nuclear power is an uncontrollable risk technology that is fatal in the event of an accident and poses a massive threat to people and the environment for generations to come. EURATOM stands in the way of a Europe-wide energy transition and must therefore be dissolved.
? Investments in fossil fuels and nuclear power are not sustainable investments. We want to end the so-called taxonomy for nuclear power and gas. (See Chapter 1, "EU taxonomy and sustainable investments") Instead, public investments should be promoted for the transition to CO2-free production. (See Chapter 2, "Transforming industry in a fair way")
? Carbon capture and storage (CCS) - i.e. the extraction from the air, transportation and storage of carbon dioxide - is not a solution for climate protection. Storing CO2 underground is associated with high risks. We therefore want to ban CCS. Carbon capture and utilization (CCU) - i.e. the material use of the extracted CO2 - must not lead to the energy transition being slowed down and fossil applications and production processes being operated for longer than necessary.
? Hydrogen can replace coal and natural gas where the direct use of green electricity is not possible. This applies to the decarbonization of the steel industry, parts of the chemical industry, in air and sea transport and for reconversion during dark doldrums.
? Hydrogen and its derivatives should only be obtained from green electricity. They may only be used where no more efficient alternatives are available.
? Where the electrolysis plants are publicly subsidized, they must be operated at least proportionately by the public sector.
? We reject the import and promotion of hydrogen from nuclear power or fossil sources. We want to limit the import of hydrogen from renewable energies to a necessary minimum. (See chapter 3, "Climate justice worldwide")
? We reject the promotion of technologies such as e-fuels (fuels produced using electrical energy). E-fuels can only be a niche solution: they are inefficient and expensive. And they lead to land use conflicts in the Global South at the expense of people and nature.
? We want to convert existing natural gas grids and expand and operate new publicly owned hydrogen grids.
Adaptation to climate change
Measures to adapt to climate change are more expensive than prevention - both are necessary. The effects of global warming can also be felt in many places in Europe: we are experiencing more frequent devastating floods such as those in the Ahr valley, droughts and forest fires are on the increase. Even if global warming could be limited to 2 degrees, there will be more heavy rainfall, hot days, longer dry periods and a lower groundwater table. As global warming increases, we will have to rebuild our cities - the heat will become unbearable in summer. Urban heat islands are a danger to health and life. Drinking water shortages a r e becoming more frequent. This particularly affects people who work outdoors, children in playgrounds and the elderly. There are a variety of climate adaptation measures:
? Surfaces can be lightened in color, gravel gardens are prohibited. More shaded areas need to be created, especially with green plants and trees. We want to expand the greening of buildings and areas, as plants have a cooling effect.
? Air conduits can ensure the exchange of air between the city and the surrounding countryside.
? More areas are still being sealed than unsealed. Cold corridors are being destroyed, concrete deserts are making areas several degrees hotter. We must drive forward the unsealing of surfaces, cities in Europe must become sponge cities.
? Climate change is exacerbating distribution conflicts. When water becomes scarce, we have to decide: Do we want to use water for growing food and public swimming pools or for golf courses and private swimming pools? The left is on the side of the majority of people on these issues. We need a European water strategy based on the motto: the common good before profit interests and services of general interest before industry.
? The EU must support cities and municipalities in implementing climate adaptation measures - climate adaptation will become part of public provision. All cities and municipalities should be obliged to draw up heat action plans and heavy rain hazard maps. Water level measurement and flood monitoring should also cover small rivers, streams and brooks throughout Europe.
Climate justice worldwide
The countries of the Global South are particularly hard hit by climate and environmental destruction - and are the least responsible for it. Climate change can only be combated effectively if all countries make their fair contribution. The early industrialized countries have a special responsibility for a climate-neutral transition. The EU must phase out fossil fuels and production methods as quickly as possible in order to live up to this responsibility. Financial aid from the EU and the EIB must be significantly increased. For us, international solidarity also means providing technology for climate protection and adaptation free of charge.
? Highly indebted countries in the Global South are neither in a position to manage the transition to a climate-friendly economy, nor can they protect themselves from climate change.
the consequences of global warming. The Left therefore supports the Debt for Climate campaign's call for a global debt cut for countries of the Global South.
? The Left is campaigning at EU level for reparation claims for climate-related damage to be recognized. We are committed to the swift and transparent implementation of the compensation fund for climate damage agreed at COP27. A fair distribution of the burden between the countries of the North and the South must be ensured.
? Women and children in particular suffer disproportionately from environmental damage and die more frequently in natural disasters. Without gender equality, there can be no climate justice. This must be taken into account in all climate protection measures and all measures must contribute to gender equality. (See Chapter 5, "A Union of Equality: Gender equality - Europe-wide")
? The EU should bring about or participate in international solidarity solutions for a population that is losing its previous living space due to climate change.
? We demand the extension of binding refugee rights to environmental and climate refugees. Nobody flees voluntarily! (See Chapter 5, "The limits of democracy: No Fortress Europe")
? Climate justice also means reducing the consumption of raw materials and resources and campaigning for a fair distribution of raw materials and resource consumption.
? We also want social and ecological standards along the supply chains for renewable energies (e.g. rare earths) and green hydrogen. (See chapter 2, "For the socio- ecological raw materials transition")
? If countries of the Global South refrain from cutting down their forests and polluting their oceans, as the countries of the Global North have done for centuries, then they must be compensated for this. The EU should advocate a global climate fund from which appropriate compensation payments are made.
? The EU should increasingly promote research and implementation measures that address the specific climate adaptation needs in the Global South (coastal protection, reef protection, measures against undermining, etc.).
More mobility with less traffic
The Left is fighting for everyone to be able to reach their destinations, for towns and villages to be better connected and for cities to become more liveable. Local and long- distance public transport throughout the EU must be expanded - this is the key to the transport revolution. A well-developed railroad with an integrated rail network can bring Europe closer together and would be a good alternative to flying.
Germany has allowed Deutsche Bahn to run into a huge investment backlog and discontinued night trains completely without necessity. This is worsening connections throughout Europe! We are committed to public transport that takes us all to our destinations barrier-free, comfortably and inexpensively, and is geared towards the common good and the needs of the people.
The EU has started to put climate protection on the agenda with the Fit for 55 package. But the focus is on increasing the CO2 price. The CO2 price will not have a sufficient steering effect: Rich people who fly in private jets or have a third-party car can affordto pay the CO2 price without having to change their behavior.
change. The others are dependent on functioning alternatives in order to switch from the car. These often do not exist because they are not promoted enough. The price increases have an existential impact on these people.
Our left-wing transport revolution looks like this: We are expanding collective and climate-friendly means of transportation and ramping up the production of buses and trains. We are abolishing subsidies for climate-damaging air and car traffic: Far fewer cars will be needed in the future. We want to make city centers car-free - of course with exceptions for delivery traffic, emergency vehicles and people with limited mobility. We want to reduce freight traffic and shift the rest from road to rail. We will put an end to the luxury spectacle of the rich: We want to ban private jets and mega yachts throughout the EU.
Socialize traffic!
Socially and ecologically just transportation must be enforced against the automotive industry. Employees in the automotive industry deserve good prospects in an industry with a future, with good wages and jobs protected by collective agreements. The car companies are trying to replace combustion engines with even larger e-SUVs. That has no future. At the same time, there is a shortage of rails, wagons, suburban trains and buses on the global market.
? The interests of employees must be at the center of industrial restructuring! The transformation of the (automotive) industry is already threatening employees. Conversion strategies, a fair transition for employees and opportunities for retraining and career changes are needed.
? We must drive forward the social and ecological transformation of the automotive industry. Thousands of new (electric) buses and rail vehicles are needed for the mobility transition. The production of photovoltaic systems and heat pumps must also be ramped up.
? The establishment of (also publicly operated) production facilities for e-buses and rail vehicles must be supported by the EU.
? A Europe-wide expansion plan for transport infrastructure creates security. This will build capacity and create jobs.
? If there is state investment aid for corporations, it must be used to achieve public ownership, co-determination and better working conditions. If companies are rescued with state money, no dividends may be paid out.
? The necessary transformation on the ground must be shaped by transformation councils with the participation of employees and civil society: for a mobility industry with public ownership and under democratic control. (See Chapter 2, "Transforming industry fairly")
Expansion of local public transport in urban and rural areas
Our vision: Public transport is the basic means of transport for everyone, the main means of transport in cities and a realistic alternative in rural areas. Urban-rural connections are strengthened and geared towards the needs of commuters.
The towns and villages are also better connected with each other. Accessibility everywhere is a matter of course. Public transport will be linked with long-distance transport and cycle paths, creating an attractive offer for short and long distances.
Local public transport will gradually become free of charge throughout the EU, initially for people entitled to benefits, students, trainees and school pupils.
? In order to implement this vision, a massive expansion of public transport is necessary throughout the EU. The "new European framework for urban mobility" is a step in the right direction to set binding expansion targets and create efficient, barrier-free and comfortable local transport - but the expansion must not be limited to urban centers.
Buses and trains in public hands! Our vision is the operation of local public transport by state-owned companies and local authorities. The EU is driving privatization with its tendering obligations. This must be stopped. Direct awarding of contracts must continue to be possible. Wherever local public transport has been privatized, we are committed to remunicipalization. Municipalities can access the municipalization fund for this purpose. (See Chapter 1, "The money is there: Let's get the wealth back!")
? We support the #Wirfahrenzusammen campaign of the trade union ver.di and Fridays for Future. The left is fighting together with employees and the climate justice movement throughout the EU for higher wages and better working conditions in public transport. This is the only way to expand public transport.
Right to mobility for all - reducing dependence on cars
In order to achieve the climate targets, car traffic must be drastically reduced by 2035. The key to this is to create affordable, climate-friendly alternatives and expand public transportation. This is our priority. It makes no sense to shake off the combustion engine - because even the automotive industry has understood that e-cars are the drive technology of the future. However, e-cars are only more climate-friendly if they are lightweight and the electricity comes from renewable energy sources.
? Most cars are far too big and heavy: we are calling for a two-ton limit on the weight of new cars. Of course, there are exceptions for families with several children or other specific needs, such as vans and camping vehicles.
? The automotive companies use the so-called super credits that they receive from the sale of e-cars to comply with the fleet limits: With the decision to phase out combustion engines, the super credits must also be discontinued.
? Transport should not be included in emissions trading (ETS 2.0). We also reject flat- rate pricing of CO2 in private transport. This affects those who are dependent on their cars and often have no alternative, and is therefore socially unjust. The social climate fund is far too small to cushion this: The money available should be used primarily for lower-income households that are dependent on their car.
? We reject the EU's push to expand the hydrogen infrastructure for private transport and to maintain all filling stations under the framing of "technological openness". This only serves the interests of the fossil fuel industry. We do not oppose the expansion o f	public e-charging stations, but we consider the expansion of public transport to be more important.
? In the long term, other settlement structures must be created: Instead of supermarkets on greenfield sites, we want town centers with lively centers away from metropolitan areas - this will reduce distances and (re)build communities.
Right of way: train before plane
Aircraft are extremely harmful to the climate: flying must therefore be drastically reduced in order to achieve climate targets. E-fuels are energy and cost-intensive and are not an alternative to flying less.
Traveling to other European countries by train is sometimes a challenge: different booking portals, no passenger rights and many things are expensive. There are far too few night trains. We want to create a European company that ensures better cooperation between national rail companies, organizes better networking in passenger and freight transport and promotes cross-border rail projects - our vision is the United Railways of Europe! Then there would be a joint booking platform, coordinated timetables and a massive expansion of cross-border transport: with the United Railways of Europe, a European train can be introduced by 2035, with connections every hour between the European capitals and major cities. We will then be able to travel to Marseille by night train and to Barcelona without changing trains - affordably and without cash. A significant proportion of air traffic would be shifted to rail.
? Short-haul flights for train journeys of less than six hours will no longer be necessary; we want to ban them.
? We want to abolish climate-damaging subsidies for air travel. At the same time, we want to make rail tickets cheaper with public subsidies.
? We are setting limits to the climate-damaging luxury consumption of the rich: we want to ban private jets throughout the EU - and air cabs too! Instead of introducing higher prices across the board by including flights in the EU emissions trading system, we are levying an additional tax on first and business class flights, as these are particularly CO2-intensive per person.
? Instead of new highways and airports, we need an EU-wide plan for the conversion and alternative use of fossil fuel-based transport infrastructure. Funding for roads and airports as part of the Trans-European Transport Networks (TEN-T) must be ended. The funds freed up will be used to expand the railroads.
? We want to put an immediate end to the expansion of further flight capacities. One way to start reorganizing the airport system is to close down loss-making regional airports. In order to implement the dismantling of the aviation industry and infrastructure in a socially just way, measures are needed for a just transition for employees, as in the automotive industry, under the motto: from flight attendant to train attendant.
? An attractive railroad is a prerequisite for the mobility turnaround: This can only be achieved in public hands and without competition. With the United Railways of Europe, Europe's rail companies are working together instead of against each other
- for example, they can set up a joint wagon pool for night trains. This saves costs and creates planning security. The EU must not push ahead with the separation of rail operations and infrastructure. Direct awards to rail companies should be given priority. When an operator changes, the employees must be taken on.
? For rail in the countryside! The expansion of the European networks must not be limited to the high-speed connections between the major cities. The TEN-T rail network, the European transport infrastructure plan, must be implemented quickly - with a focus on less profitable cross-border traffic.
Freight traffic
International corporations play off the lowest labor costs against each other globally and take advantage of the low transport costs. As a result, more and more transport kilometers are being put into the products. The absurdity of global freight transport must be ended: North Sea crabs, which are poached in Morocco and packed in Poland to be sold as a regional product in the North Sea, are not a real product.
"North Sea crabs". We want to reduce freight traffic overall and shift a significant proportion of the remaining freight traffic to rail:
? Regional production chains and regional marketing make a significant contribution to reducing truck and sea traffic, which is another reason why we want to strengthen regional economic cycles. (See Chapter 2, "Strengthening regional economic cycles")
? Higher transport costs are an important means of reducing transport routes. The mandatory implementation and increase of the truck toll in all member states can ensure that higher distances are also priced higher. This will give rail freight transport considerable cost advantages over truck transport. As in Switzerland, the revenue from the HGV toll should be used to promote freight transport.
? Although there has been progress in the social regulations for HGVs, such as the right to return home, they are still inadequate. The social regulations for truck drivers need to be further improved and checks extended. They finally need higher wages! This will also help to reduce transport routes.
? The European rail transport network must be implemented. Further technical and legal harmonization of EU rail transport is a prerequisite for a switch to rail in the EU: the EU must ensure that the 740-metre network for freight transport is actually expanded throughout Europe by 2030.
? Large industrial and commercial areas should be required to provide an appropriate rail connection.
? In order to relieve cities of delivery traffic, we want to support municipalities in setting up local logistics centers with good working conditions. We want to promote public parcel and delivery services that are geared towards the common good, instead of banal hypercompetition at the expense of employees.
Shipping and maritime transport
The EU is driving forward the decarbonization of maritime transport through e-fuels. There are hardly any alternatives. But e-fuels are expensive and energy-intensive - which is why maritime transport must be reduced. The EU must set binding targets for this. A regionalization of economic structures significantly reduces global traffic with container ships. Emissions from cruise ships and container ships are also too high.
? We want to prohibit flags of convenience in European maritime transport and consistently tie national jurisdiction to the principle of who ultimately benefits from the profits ("final beneficiary"). Support for shipping must be linked to social and environmental conditions.
? Scrapping in unlicensed ports of convenience is prohibited. The ban must not be circumvented by selling. Design specifications in shipbuilding must be developed that are recycling-friendly from the outset. Competition between European ports must be replaced by close cooperation.
? Wherever possible, ships must be powered by electricity: near the coast, in inland shipping and on short journeys. Container ships and cruise ships must use shore power in European ports.
? We want to ban private motorized superyachts with a length of more than 60 meters throughout the EU. It is a scandal that they are to be exempt from EU emissions trading as leisure craft.
? Emissions from cruise ships are too high - regional tourism must be strengthened and cruises must be reduced.
? We want the tonnage tax to be abolished throughout Europe as a special tax regime for shipping companies. Instead, these companies should be subject to regular profit taxation in order to ensure equal treatment in the tax system.
Space
The development of near-Earth space has many important functions: for telecommunications, for observing climate change, for research. The use and development of space must be carried out under public control.
? No space fun for the super-rich at the expense of our climate! We want to ban private space travel and space tourism from EU soil.
? In order to avoid space debris, the EU must work with the international community to develop and implement binding guidelines on the deployment and operation of satellites.
Sustainable digitalization
Digital applications and devices consume a lot of electricity. Many raw materials are needed to manufacture them, most of which are produced in countries in the Global South under exploitative, environmentally damaging conditions and with disregard for the labor rights of employees. This also applies to the manufacture of the appliances themselves.
Human rights, employee rights and environmental and climate protection requirements must be observed worldwide. Digitalization will increase the demand for electricity.
Additional wind turbines and solar fields will be needed to generate electricity ecologically. Their production also requires raw materials and energy, and their operation consumes land. Up to now, efficiency gains in appliances have always been overcompensated by additional new appliances and applications (rebound effect). We therefore need a serious debate about the areas in which digitalization improves people's lives and our future, and those in which it does not: so that digitalization benefits people and not profit.
? Stop energy-guzzling advertising, tracking and data collection in the service of consumption and opinion manipulation.
? We want to reduce the energy consumption of digital applications: through targeted research, data economy and mandatory energy-saving standard settings. Superfluous and extremely energy-intensive applications such as the
We want to prevent the "mining" of cryptocurrencies.
? Waste heat from data centers must be reused, for example fed into heating networks. This must be taken into account from the outset when planning the location and cooling technology (water cooling).
? Durability, easy repairability, reusability through modular design, minimum update obligations, good availability of spare parts and far-reaching interoperability of software and hardware must be made mandatory. We want to increase warranty obligations to at least five years, extend depreciation periods and increase the minimum useful life of procured communication technology in public institutions. If manufacturers discontinue support and no longer provide security updates, the source code and assembly instructions must be published so that repair centers, developers and hobbyists can extend the life of the devices. (See Chapter 2, "More circular economy, less waste")
? The Supply Chain Act must be tightened and manufacturers must be held liable for compliance with social, environmental and occupational health and safety standards along the entire supply chain. (See Chapter 4, "Fair trade policy: cooperation instead of competition", and Chapter 1, "Redistribution for good work")
? Finite raw materials and rare earths required for the energy transition and the digital economy must be replaced by ecologically less harmful raw materials wherever possible and research into this must be strongly promoted. Lithium, for example, must be replaced by sodium in rechargeable batteries.
Fight species extinction!
The compulsion to operate for the greatest profit is undermining our natural livelihoods. Germany is one of the regions with the highest water loss in the EU. The extinction of species continues unabated. Forests, moors and seas are on the verge of collapse.
? Funding for the protection of biodiversity has been increased in the EU. However, the EU has fallen well short of the nature conservation targets it set itself. In the interests of the agricultural lobby, the conservative and extreme right-wing parties in the EU Parliament are trying to prevent an effective renaturation law that would restore destroyed ecosystems and biodiversity.
? Daring more wilderness: We want to preserve our natural resources and restore destroyed ecosystems: clean, pollutant-free water, soil and air and growing biodiversity. Only an intact natural environment can secure life for us humans.
? Wild animals and their habitats must be given special protection. International species and nature conservation agreements, in particular the current Kunming- Montreal Agreement, must be consistently implemented in the EU.
? We want to expand protected areas such as Natura 2000 and wilderness areas. Protection must be carried out under strict control and in compliance with the Habitats Directive (FFH).
? The EU Water Framework Directive for good ecological water status and its daughter directives must not be watered down or opened up.
? The EU directives must also be complied with: There is a need for consistent infringement proceedings in the event of failures.
? We want to further increase the EU LIFE program, as it has proven to be effective in improving the state of nature and the environment.
? We support a new EU nature conservation fund to finance the tasks (for example the rewetting of moors) from the so-called Nature Restoration Law. We reject the financing of nature conservation through compensation measures for biodiversity loss or other nature finance markets.
? Human rights must be respected, there must be no theft of indigenous land by nature parks.
? Nature is often only perceived as an object of environmental protection. A different relationship to nature should also be reflected in the law. The Left supports the proposal to recognize nature as a legal subject and to include the criminal offence of ecocide in European and international law. Nature then has rights that can be enforced.
? There is a need for an effective right of action for environmental and animal welfare associations in the EU Member States.
Protecting the oceans
The world's oceans make up around 73 percent of our planet. They provide a habitat for animals and plants, are a source of food, regulate the climate and produce oxygen. But this habitat continues to be destroyed. Every year, 8 million tons of waste end up in the oceans. Oil and gas extraction is poisoning the water, while overfishing and global warming are destroying habitats.
? Since March 2023, there has been a UN Convention on the Protection of the High Seas, which makes it possible to place high seas under protection. The EU must push for rapid ratification of the agreement and work to ensure that 30 percent of the world's marine areas are placed under protection by 2030. The access and fishing rights of small-scale fishermen must be guaranteed and their involvement in the management of protected areas must be guaranteed and promoted.
? The EU must enforce the protection of marine biotopes through binding standards and tough sanctions. Affected regions and employees should be supported in shaping structural change. Fisheries subsidies must be linked to sustainable, social and animal welfare standards.
? We want fishing to be effectively regulated so that no more fish are caught than can grow back. The livelihoods and working conditions of people in and outside the EU, on ships and in fishing areas should be safeguarded.
? We want to ban fishing with gillnets and trawls and support fishermen in using alternative fishing methods.
? The pollution control regulations for watercraft and infrastructure projects must be tightened. Support is required for the technical conversion of the fishing companies based and operating in the region.
? The pollution of the oceans by waste disposal, agricultural and industrial substances must be drastically reduced. The MARPOL Convention is a basis for this. Violations must be punished more effectively.
? Munitions in the EU's seas pose an acute threat to the marine environment and human health. The salvage and disposal of munitions must therefore be driven forward with the help of new technologies.
? Only sustainable aquacultures should be promoted. Animal husbandry in water must also be regulated socially, ecologically and in terms of animal welfare. Strict guidelines and controls are needed to ensure that fragile ecosystems are not further destroyed.
? Commercial whaling must be stopped. The EU should exert influence on countries such as Norway, Iceland and Japan to end the hunting of whales. Violations of the international ban on whaling must be punished.
? We want to ban deep sea mining internationally.
? More plastic than fish in the sea? We must prevent this! The use of plastic must be drastically reduced. The creation of microplastics must be avoided wherever possible. (See chapter 2, "More circular economy, less waste")
Protect animals
The Left stands for a fundamental change in the coexistence of humans and animals. We do not want animals to be seen as things and not as a means to profit. Several successful European citizens' initiatives show this: The European population finally wants real animal protection. Animals are sentient beings and we must treat them as such. The Left is also committed to consistent animal and species protection at European level. Animal welfare must be enforced independently of profit interests: From agriculture (see Chapter 2, "For socio-ecological agriculture") to research laboratories. We want animal welfare to become an EU common goal. This is important so that poor communities can receive funding. The rights of animals should be enshrined in a future European constitution.
? We need higher standards without loopholes, more transparency in the animal industry and independent inspections by appropriate personnel and video documentation in slaughterhouses.
? We want to ban animal testing in the EU and promote and give legal preference to alternative research methods. Clear phase-out plans are finally needed in all Member States.
? The trade in animals (especially on the internet) must be strictly regulated. Poaching and illegal wildlife trade must be combated. We want a ban on the production and import of fur.
? We protect wild animals by connecting biotopes. We reduce wildlife accidents through animal corri- dors: Fences along highways and speed limits help here, for example.
? The husbandry standards in zoos, businesses and households must be adapted to the basic needs of the respective animals. Social animals should only be kept individually in exceptional cases. We demand an immediate ban on dolphinaria, wild animals in circuses and a ban on keeping animals at fairgrounds and similar places.
? The EU must develop a positive list for keeping pets. This should protect exotic animals from being taken from the wild. It should also ensure that only animals whose basic needs can be met and which do not pose a risk to the population (diseases, predators) are kept privately.
? We are fighting for a ban on the import of animals. Exceptions only apply to animals that are demonstrably better protected in zoos and aquariums than in the wild. Animals caught in the wild must not be sold in zoo pet shops.
? The European nature conservation directives must be reformed so that recreational hunting is limited. We want to prohibit the hunting of dogs and cats as well as predators such as foxes.
? No patents may be registered on plants, animals, humans and other living beings or on their organs, genes, gene sequences or breeding methods.
Chapter 4 Peace and social justice worldwide
We are experiencing an epochal change. The conflict for dominance in the world is coming to a head. Increased competition on the world market is fueling conflicts over markets and resources everywhere. The slow end of the USA's supremacy and the rise of China are leading to imperial tensions and new proxy conflicts everywhere. Added to this is Russia's striving for great power status. NATO members and other countries such as China, India and Russia are massively arming themselves. Arms companies are the main beneficiaries of this. Capitalism, which is based on profit maximization, carries war within it like a cloud carries rain.
Reactionary movements are on the rise in many places. The threat of authoritarianism is also real in Europe. The dangers of a world war and t h e fear of nuclear escalation have not been as great as they are today for 70 years. This makes it clear that a multipolar world needs international negotiation formats and a new policy of security and dtente. However, the EU all too often contributes to escalation and is part of the power struggle between major powers that are in fierce competition with each other.
EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has declared that
"we" are entering an "era of regional rivalries and great powers that are rebalancing their relationship with each other". This is why she wants to turn the EU into a player in the global struggle for hegemony. In doing so, she is representative of governments and leading capital factions in the EU that are geared towards economic and military confrontation. The EU's trade strategies in the Indo-Pacific and Africa are evidence of its efforts to secure economic spheres of influence and sales markets. In recent years alone, armaments spending by European NATO member states has increased from 235 billion euros in 2015 to 310 billion euros in 2022. The European Defense Fund, created in 2017, is intended to pave the way for a European army. It is to be endowed with billions. The "strategic compass", which was adopted at the EU summit in March 2022, sets out armaments policy guidelines to position the EU as a central imperial player in times of a "return of power politics". This version of a
"strategic autonomy" benefits not least the European arms companies and drives Europe further into bloc confrontation and arms races.
Various instruments have been expanded or newly created for this purpose: The European Peace Facility has become an important pot for financing arms deliveries. Its budget has been increased from 5.7 billion euros to - provisionally - 12 billion euros. In addition, the EU Parliament's decision in September 2023 to promote
"Instrument for strengthening the European Defense Industry through Joint Procurement" (EDIRPA), the transnational purchase of armaments with an initial 300 million euros from the EU budget. Europe as a civilian power has thus come a long way: The research and development of armaments, the purchase and production, everything is now co-financed by the EU budget. The current war is a huge business for the arms industry.
The left, on the other hand, is committed to de-escalation, global justice and civil conflict resolution in order to provide a peaceful alternative to the escalating confrontation between the blocs. This means a policy that does not follow the logic of the military, that takes the threat to democracy and the rule of law from within and without seriously, but is committed to cross-border reconciliation, disarmament and social justice. A policy of dtente that strengthens international law and the path of diplomacy and negotiation. A policy that finally tackles the causes of flight - not the refugees.
ted. That strengthens solidarity-based trade and joint development instead of intensifying competition between locations and neo-colonial exploitation. That supports those people, organizations, trade unions and movements that stand up for democracy and justice instead of continuing to make deals with dictators. Ensuring that the EU does not remain a driver of the arms race, but becomes a union of peace.
This can be achieved with a new internationalism that respects international law and human rights without double standards - and stands up for justice, cooperation and democracy everywhere. For us, internationalism means solidarity with people, movements, trade unions, organizations, parties and governments that are committed to an independent path of development beyond the capitalist logic of profit and against imperialist hegemony. Because Rosa Luxemburg's alternative
"Socialism or barbarism" is becoming increasingly topical. As an internationalist party, the left is part of the global movement for a peaceful and just world, against imperialism and war, against fascism and racism, against exploitation, oppression, poverty and environmental destruction. The boundaries are drawn between above and below, our fight for justice is universal. Social justice, a climate-friendly economy and the rule of law, human rights and effective international structures are needed worldwide. We are therefore fighting for an EU that is neither a pawn nor an imperial player in the new world (dis)order. For an EU that is strategically independent of the arms race and the bloc confrontation between the USA on the one hand and China and Russia on the other.
An EU committed to peace and global justice.
We see ourselves as an active part of the peace movement. We want to strengthen and build the peace movement. Together with activists, movements and trade unionists, we want to exert pressure for a policy that puts people at the center. That is why we refuse to divide the world into spheres of influence of major powers. That is why we want to break with the EU's policy of military tunnel vision and advocate civilian alternatives worldwide. That is why we reject arms exports and the business of weapons, destruction and death. That is why we oppose great power politics and imperial domination everywhere.
That is why we believe that security and social justice belong together. That is why international law and the Charter of the United Nations form the framework of international relations for us. That is why we stand up for the fact that war must not be a means of politics. That is why Die Linke is the party of peace.
Against the Russian war of aggression - for peace in Ukraine
We condemn the Russian Federation's criminal war of aggression. We condemn the war crimes and call for those responsible to be punished.
We should not forget that Putin's war of aggression also h a s a history in which the West exacerbated the crisis with NATO's eastward expansion. Our solidarity is with the people of Ukraine and all those who are suffering, resisting or fleeing the war. And it belongs to all those in the region who oppose the war, refuse to do military service or desert and are persecuted for it. It belongs to those who oppose war worldwide and support people on the run. We feel connected to them. We emphasize the human right to conscientious objection and the right to asylum for all conscientious objectors and deserters. It is indivisible and applies to everyone, whether in Russia or Ukraine. The war against Ukraine must end immediately and Russian troops must be withdrawn from Ukraine. Who is being attacked,
has the right of self-defense under Article 51 of the UN Charter. The territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine must be restored within secure borders. Legitimate security interests of Ukraine and Russia as well as the rights of national minorities must be adequately taken into account. It is clear that we need more than appeals. Putin's imperialist aggression must be stopped.
At the same time, the West must not continue to react with escalation and rearmament to the fact that the global dominance of the leading power, the USA, is declining. We stand for a policy that defends democracy, peace and international law by civilian means and promotes alternatives to military logic. We call for a rapid ceasefire without preconditions to pave the way for serious peace negotiations.
Instead of supplying more and more weapons to a war of attrition that has been going on for far too long and accepting the risk of further escalation, the non-military options must finally be fully utilized. We are committed to strengthening the anti-war movement with the aggressor Russia, in Ukraine and worldwide.
? The German government and the EU must finally make every effort and - even against the will of the USA - take up the initiatives of numerous countries such as China, India and Brazil and exert diplomatic pressure on Russia. Arms freeze negotiations at the invitation of the UN and the consideration of existing negotiation initiatives are necessary, even if these are not yet sufficient.
? Targeted sanctions must be directed against Putin's power apparatus, the oligarchs and the military-industrial complex and thus against the ability to wage war. Sanctions must have clearly defined goals and end when these have been achieved. We reject sanctions that are primarily directed against the population or contribute to impoverishment in the Global South.
? The German government and the EU must fulfill their responsibility for the expropriation of Russian oligarchs' assets within a national and European framework. A transparency law that makes it more difficult to conceal assets is urgently needed. The establishment of an international financial register, as called for by Thomas Piketty, is necessary and overdue. A central, transparent real estate register is also needed.
? The Left is in favor of sanctions against the Russian nuclear sector.
? Resistance against militarism and nationalism everywhere!
? Support the resistance in Russia against war and dictatorship!
? Conscientious objectors and deserters from both warring parties must be granted the right to asylum and recognized without bureaucracy.
? We demand a debt haircut for Ukraine to enable reconstruction after the war. The sell-out of the country to Western corporations and Ukraine's dependence on lenders and financial investors such as Blackrock must be stopped.
? Russia is more than Putin! We stand up against propaganda against Russians and Russian-speaking people in this country and support progressive forces in Russia.
? Eastern Europe today consists of a large number of independent states that have the right to make sovereign decisions about their development. We want to maintain civil society relations in all of these countries in order to oppose growing nationalism.
? Refugees must be accepted more quickly and with less bureaucracy, regardless of their origin. The fact that this is possible can be seen in the way refugees from Ukraine are treated. This approach must apply to all refugees.
? The Asylum Seekers Benefits Act must be abolished. Refugees' arrival should be made easier by quickly providing them with decentralized accommodation. (See Chapter 5, "The borders of democracy: No Fortress Europe")
Collective security in Europe instead of an arms race and bloc confrontation
Military alliances such as NATO claim to create more "security" for their members by pooling the potential for force. However, the agreements on armament in particular create more insecurity and lead to a security dilemma: other countries are also increasing their armaments budgets. Instead of putting money into social policy, billions go to arms companies.
While NATO is often referred to as a defense alliance, the balance sheet looks different. From the Kosovo war to Iraq and the "War on Terror": short-term profit interests in trade policy and the imperial ambitions of NATO and its allies have often triumphed in the West. Even today, NATO states such as Turkey or the USA and its allies such as Saudi Arabia systematically disregard international law and human rights. NATO is not a "community of values".
The German government's new security strategy and corresponding EU concepts also remain committed to the priority of "military security" and subordination to NATO. However, military armament only appears to create more security; in fact, it increases the risk of violent confrontation. Some EU states are now even contributing their armed forces to the escalation between the USA and China. That is extremely dangerous. We want to get out of this spiral. Because almost every country in the world is arming itself
- and there is no end in sight.
In the wake of the Russian attack on Ukraine, the coalition government with the support of the CDU and the AfD opposition has decided on a special fund for the federal budget of over 100 billion euros. This means that Germany intends to exceed NATO's target of spending 2% of gross domestic product on military and armaments overnight. Rearmament is given constitutional status - against the peace requirement of the Basic L a w .	A far greater increase in the armaments budget is planned. Added to this are the rearmament and militarization of the EU.
The current financial framework provides for a total of up to 46 billion euros in public investment for armaments and military-related research projects. The version of "strategic autonomy" being pursued by the EU Commission and the German government is primarily intended to give the EU the opportunity to act militarily on a global scale. The "turning point" towards a new arms race means that resources are being shifted from the fight for climate protection, better education, development cooperation and social security to (even) more military. This policy is driving a spiral of armament that in no way creates more security in Europe. This is because the military in the EU is not underfunded. The military expenditure of the EU states is already many times higher than that of Russia. We are fighting for an EU that is strategically independent but stands up for peace, negotiations and disarmament. We therefore want a security strategy for Europe that creates sustainable security without further escalation and without driving the arms race, and which at the same time opens up prospects for disarmament and de-escalation on an international level.
? Stop rearmament and no military deployments abroad, instead mutual security, disarmament, structural non-aggression capability and the restructuring of the armed forces on the basis of strict defensive potentials. The huge loopholes in the EU arms export directives must be closed and sanctions created for violations. The Bundeswehr must be withdrawn from all foreign deployments. It must not be deployed domestically beyond necessary disaster relief. The emergency laws that provide for and enable the deployment of the Bundeswehr within Germany must be repealed.
? Stop the militarization of the EU! No EU army and dissolution of the EU battle groups as well as the "Defense Agency" and the EU Defense Fund. We want to reallocate the planned armaments budgets EVF, EFF and the expenditure for "military mobility" and PESCO to investments for socio-ecological restructuring and energy independence.
? The principle of a parliamentary army must not be watered down; the Bundestag must continue to decide on Bundeswehr deployments.
? We will not agree to any changes to the EU treaties that include steps t o w a r d s further militarization of the EU.
? The EU treaties must be amended: The armament obligation for the member states writes militarization into the foundations of the EU. It must be overcome.
? We want to disarm the armed forces in Europe. We need conventional arms control in Europe along the lines of the A-CFE Treaty (Adapted Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe).
? The EU must not be part of confrontation and escalation! Therefore, unnecessary provocations such as the large-scale "Air Defender" maneuver or a permanent stationing of German combat troops on the Russian border must be avoided.
? Even if it is currently difficult to imagine due to the Russian war of aggression: in the long term, we need the prospect of a collective security system in Europe. To this end, we want to revive the OSCE and develop it further as OSCE 2.0 into the central structure for a sustainable peace and security order.
? We want a Europe without weapons of mass destruction. The EU must accede to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and advocate a relaunch of the treaty on the disarmament and destruction of medium and short-range missiles throughout Europe. Negotiations between NATO and Russia on the elimination of tactical nuclear weapons from the Atlantic to the Urals are urgently needed. The goal must be the elimination of all nuclear weapons.
? We want to close the US military bases in the EU, as these are deployment sites for the bloc confrontation and are used for wars that violate international law, targeted killings through drone attacks, extralegal detention, the stationing and storage of nuclear weapons and intelligence surveillance worldwide.
? No security without social security! No fake news campaign has contributed as much to the destabilization of the EU as the years of cutbacks driven by various federal governments. Instead of a new edition of austerity policy, a stable Europe needs massive public investment in social welfare, education, health and climate-friendly restructuring.
? The EU must strengthen civil conflict resolution capacities, international civil protection and development cooperation. We want to establish a civilian European peace service and develop civilian structures for international disaster protection. We reject civil-military cooperation - civil aid must not be linked to military measures.
No business with death and destruction! Stop arms exports
Wars are waged with weapons and cause millions of people to suffer, but many arms companies and their shareholders make a fortune from them. They have an interest in growing profits and no interest in a quick end to violence. In order to be a credible international player, the EU relies on strong domestic arms industries in the EU member states. This is not possible without extensive arms exports. But a society in which the business of death grows is not peaceful. In contrast, we stand for a different perspective: instead of more and more weapons, we want an economy that produces useful goods for people and uses its resources to solve common challenges.
? We reject the business of death. We do not want to supply weapons and armaments to crisis and war zones. Because every weapon finds its war, some even several. The Left therefore calls for a legal ban on arms exports. Until this is achieved, arms exports must no longer be supported with taxpayers' money and Hermes guarantees.
? We do not want to further expand the military-industrial complex in Europe, but rather dismantle it and convert it to socially useful production. Reconversion is feasible: Together with social partners from trade unions, the peace movement and churches, we want to develop conversion programs for and with employees in the arms industry in order to create new, civilian jobs.
? We advocate outlawing the development, production and use of fully autonomous weapons. The German government must launch an international initiative to this end.
? We reject the development of an armed Eurodrone, as well as the Future Combat Air System and similar joint armaments projects. The EU must take a first step and campaign internationally for a ban on armed drones that is binding under international law.
? We call for an EU-wide ban on the export of biological or chemical dual-use goods to countries that have not signed and ratified the respective convention banning biological or chemical weapons.
? Investing in the future instead of profits for arms companies! Major tasks lie ahead of us in the CO2-neutral restructuring of our economy. We want to mobilize the necessary investments for this and reallocate military spending.
Good neighborliness: defending human rights
Neighborhood and enlargement policy is often reduced by the EU Commission to short- term and narrow-minded energy and migration policy "solutions". At the same time, a peaceful, cooperative and comprehensive neighborhood policy, which includes growing economic cooperation, rule of law discourse and cultural exchange, is part of the EU's declared self-image. The Left stands for a neighborhood policy that promotes cooperation, mutually beneficial economic cooperation, the protection of human rights, intercultural dialogue and democratic development. While the German government and the EU Commission like to talk about human rights and feminist foreign policy, the reality is completely different. The military and police are increasingly merging, especially at the EU's external borders guarded by Frontex. The militarization of the EU's external borders and the military "support" of third countries to push forward European borders for the purpose of migration control are brutal, inhumane and a massive violation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. This destabilizes s o c i e t i e s . Cooperation with authoritarian states to seal off the EU from refugees
itself creates new uncertainties. This also harms democracy in Europe - no democracy can develop in a fortress. Isolation has itself become a big business, with surveillance and "security technology" generating huge profits. The dependence of Europe's energy supply on fossil dictatorships (formerly Russia, now Qatar) is also damaging the global climate, our democracy here and the people on the ground. In addition, the EU is exporting cutbacks and privatization policies to its neighbors via accession and association agreements and its trade policy. This must change.
? Stop the dying - Europe's borders must be demilitarized! We reject drone missions, barbed wire, pushbacks, walls and other measures to seal off refugees. (See chapter 5, "Saving people: legal escape routes")
? Support for and cooperation with NATO countries and their allies that disregard international law - such as Turkey under the regime of Recep Tayyip Erdogan or Saudi Arabia in the brutal war in Yemen - must be stopped immediately.
? We call on the EU to realign its relationship with NATO member and privileged EU partner Turkey. The accession process is no longer being pursued by President Erdogan. The EU is bound to the AKP regime by the European Council's refugee deal and regularly turns a blind eye to the Turkish government's domestic and foreign policy repressions and its geopolitical intervention in the South Caucasus.
? We call for an end to participation in international police and secret service operations or training missions that serve to support authoritarian regimes, such as in Egypt, Tunisia, Saudi Arabia, Libya or Morocco.
? We reject the fact that authoritarian governments criminalize opposition movements and organizations and that the EU follows this criminalization for opportunistic reasons. The PKK must finally be removed from the EU's "terror list".
? We demand that the use of military security and mercenary companies be banned in the EU.
? Massive investments in renewable energies are needed throughout Europe and the EU's neighboring countries from North Africa to Asia! This will help democracies and their economies to become independent of fossil dictatorships in the long term.
? We want to promote civil society instead of making deals with dictators and warlords to seal off refugees! That is why we support progressive movements and civil society from Kurdistan to Sudan and the Western Sahara.
? A sustainable peace order and collective security require a stable economic foundation. What is therefore needed is a neighborhood and trade policy based on solidarity that invests locally and is tied to compliance with democratic, social and legal standards.
? Link EU enlargement to social and democratic standards! EU membership must be linked to social, constitutional and democratic development indicators on the ground and must neither be a political bargaining chip for the geostrategic interests of NATO and the USA nor be linked to cutbacks and privatization requirements.
? The EU has lost its compass in its enlargement policy: in terms of overall social development, in particular the promotion of rule of law processes in
the candidate countries, the fight against climate change and for social participation. Instead, a politically instrumental, purely economic interest in cooperation with these neighboring states of the EU is being pursued.
? Regimes such as Azerbaijan must no longer be supported as long as they destabilize an entire region and act belligerently, repressively and in violation of international law towards their own and the Armenian population. In this context, the EU must also oppose Turkey's policy in Azerbaijan.
? The Left will campaign against an enlargement policy that is exclusively economically motivated and interest-driven, which ultimately seals off the European single market.
Democratization and rule of law discourses should be co-determined by NGOs and civil societies, by the critical opposition in the candidate countries. Media freedom, education and participation in the European public sphere in the neighboring states and candidate countries must be comprehensively supported by European funding programs.
Strengthening international law - resolving conflicts civilly and peacefully
International law and the UN Charter are the framework for resolving conflicts peacefully. There must be no double standards in international law - on the contrary: we need more international cooperation between states and cross-border rights for people. We therefore want to strengthen international law and punish violations everywhere.
? We want to enforce human rights globally. To achieve this, international jurisdiction must be strengthened and double standards overcome. States such as the USA and Russia must also be held accountable.
? International and human rights conventions also apply to the EU and its allies! We clearly reject the debate on the supply of banned weapons in exceptional cases (such as cluster munitions). No end justifies these means!
? The EU must campaign for the release of political prisoners everywhere. We stand in solidarity with persecuted whistleblowers like Edward Snowden and journalists like Julian Assange, who have made war crimes and unlawful US surveillance public.
? We demand that the human right to conscientious objection be respected in all states.
? The EU must focus on civilian peace measures such as the involvement of women's initiatives, training programs, the collection of firearms and civilian mediators. The funds made available for the civil peace service must be systematically increased.
? Internationally proven instruments such as unarmed civilian peacekeeping must be promoted.
A different approach to security: strengthening the United Nations ...
The left fights for a peaceful EU that does not take part in the competition between the military poles, but plays a balancing role. Multilateralism means the cooperative and equal cooperation of several states to solve common problems. A multipolar world order requires containment through multilateral structures.
At the end of the bloc confrontation between NATO and the Warsaw Pact, there would have been an opportunity to clear the way for a collective security alliance that would not lead to insecurity for others. This opportunity was missed. Developments since then do not show that this path was impossible, but that it would have been necessary. Instead, the expansion of NATO has stoked international tensions.
The challenge remains to create a global peace order that encompasses as many states as possible. This is another reason why we need an end to Russian a g g r e s s i o n and a just peace in Ukraine. Lasting peace in a crisis-ridden world can only be achieved through disarmament and de-escalation. Instead of arms races, we need stronger cooperation for new security and disarmament treaties and a just world economic order. Our goal is to overcome all military alliances (such as NATO, CSTO, AUCUS in the South Pacific region) through a process towards a global peace order. The multipolar world order with its various imperial centers of power needs a new peace order that focuses on international law and the organizations of international law.
The United Nations (UN) system encompasses almost all states in the world and is the accepted framework for overcoming the security dilemma. The UN Charter enshrines the equality of nations, their sovereignty, the prohibition of aggressive war and the principle of peace. This includes the ban on intervention, which has also been repeatedly circumvented by NATO states.
For Die Linke, the UN represents the starting point for the states of the EU to organize a common civil foreign policy in practice and to create global security. We do not reduce security to the military and violence, but look at the underlying causes of insecurity: A lack of social security often results from economic interests. Power between the Global North and the South is also unequally distributed in the UN system. Nevertheless, the institutions and sub-organizations of the UN are more inclusive and transparent than all informal associations of powerful states such as the G20 or the G7. To this day, institutions such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank play an important role in the development of global economic and trade policy. For decades, they have acted as levers for privatization and cutbacks. In contrast, we want to strengthen the UN and its corresponding international institutions and turn them into forums for social development.
? We want to upgrade the UN and make it the international place where hostile states can enter into low-threshold dialog. There can only be a policy of dtente among those who have conflicts with each other.
? A global disarmament initiative must be launched via the UN in which binding disarmament targets are set for all member states.
? We want to achieve a balance of economic interests in the North-South relationship. The sub-organizations of the UN have considerable knowledge that must be used for the development of a fair world trade policy.
? We want to bring more global trade issues into the UN. In this way, they can be appropriately linked with social, development and environmental policy goals - and the UN Sustainable Development Goals can be brought to life.
? We call for a fourth Financing for Development Conference under the auspices of the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) to address structural problems of economic policy in financial regulation, debt, taxation, trade and technology.
... and democratize!
We advocate a democratic reform of the UN, as this is the only way to strengthen it in the long term. The UN is also in urgent need of change. The UN Security Council is often blocked due to conflicts between the major powers. The five permanent members also have such a privileged role in the UN system that they can de facto break the UN Charter time and again. This was the case for the USA in Iraq as it is today for Russia in Ukraine. As a union of 27 states, the EU has just as many votes in the General Assembly, and this weight must finally be used together with other states.
? The UN General Assembly must be strengthened vis--vis the Security Council and be given the right to overrule a veto by a Security Council member with a qualified majority. We reject the demand for a permanent seat for Germany on the Security Council.
? The countries of the Global South must be given a greater say and allowed to play a more active role in tackling the world's most pressing problems.
? Humanitarian aid is not a matter for negotiation! Time and again, the UN Security Council is blocked by the individual interests of the major powers, even on humanitarian issues. This is evident in Syria, for example, and has fatal consequences for many people. We want to create a UN body that is independent of individual member states and enables aid to be delivered to conflict regions without requiring the approval of the Security Council.
? The UN's specialized agencies, such as the World Food Programme (WFP), the World Health Organization (WHO), the International Labour Organization (ILO) or the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR), are unable to adequately respond to the crises due to underfunding. The rich member states must finally meet their payment obligations and close the funding gap. In the case of the UNHCR, this is only a fraction of Germany's refugee expenditure.
? In order to reduce the influence of private actors, we want to increase the basic contributions to the UN, especially for the rich countries.
Socially just worldwide
The West and the EU countries still benefit from unfair trade relations that are based on centuries of colonialism. The industrialized countries receive cheap raw materials and supply industrially manufactured goods. They also exploit the low wage levels of countries in the Global South for their own purposes. For these countries, this means cementing poverty. Instead, they should be put in a position to process raw materials themselves and protect the economic d e v e l o p m e n t of their countries. Working conditions at the end of European supply chains are often brutal. This has fatal consequences for billions of people: The global hunger crisis, triggered by the consequences of climate change, exploitation and unequal distribution of resources, is threatening millions of people worldwide. Global competition has long since broken out for resources such as rare earths, which are crucial for digitalization and climate- friendly restructuring. In the search for energy alternatives, countries in the Global South are threatened by "green colonialism". The dispute over Ukrainian grain exports has shown how fragile the food supply is in large parts of the world. Important global economic policy decisions are made by exclusive groups such as the Paris Group, G7 and G20. With the "splitting", i.e. the free trade agreement without the consent of the
member states and their parliaments, democratic majorities are undermined.
Development programs of the Global North, such as the EU's Africa strategy, tend to serve the economic interests and influence of its elites and large corporations. They often legitimize existing inequalities without bringing about any noticeable improvement in the situation in the countries of the South. It is therefore no wonder that criticism of EU and US policies is now growing worldwide. On the other hand, an EU that negotiates inclusive solutions in our multipolar world would also gain diplomatic weight. A multilateral balance of interests also encompasses economic and development issues.
Cooperation between the countries of the North and the countries of the South must be fair, ecologically just and based on democratic principles. Global inequalities must finally be addressed through inclusive forums. We therefore welcome initiatives within the UN that give all affected countries a voice, such as the UN Financing for Development Forum and the proposals for a new global tax convention. The summits of the G77 countries are also of great importance in this respect. The UN's Sustainable Development Goals (Agenda 2030) have committed the global community to goals that must be a central component of a policy based on cooperation with the countries of the Global South. Currently, the achievement of the Agenda 2030 goals is highly jeopardized.
Exceeding the 1.5-degree target of the Paris Climate Agreement will also have catastrophic consequences for the countries of the Global South. The concept of "common but differentiated responsibilities" from the global climate negotiations must also be applied to other policy areas.
Fair trade policy: cooperation instead of competition
We want to combat exploitation in North-South relations, fight poverty and hunger and distribute the burden of climate policy fairly. Security encompasses more than the absence of violence. The supply of good food must be guaranteed, there must be access to medical care, housing, culture, education and training in an intact environment.
? We want an effective European supply chain law that takes effective action against child labor, exploitation, human rights violations and environmental damage and prescribes clear due diligence obligations for companies. The financial sector must not be excluded from this law. The EU Council must pave the way for the European Parliament's Supply Chain Directive. (See Chapter 2, "For the socio-ecological raw materials transition")
? European Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) have often come about under strong pressure from the EU and are largely determined by the EU's economic interests. They provide for extensive free trade. As a result, these countries are flooded with cheap, industrially produced goods and local businesses are destroyed on a large scale. The EU must replace the EPAs with cooperation and investment agreements that are systematically geared towards achieving sustainability goals.
? The Left opposes free trade ideology and advocates fair cooperation agreements that are based on the UN sustainability goals, are in line with climate protection goals, human rights, development cooperation and the rights of dependent employees, and aim to combat poverty instead of the pursuit of profit.
? Central components of fair agreements are: no trade in agricultural products whose production causes deforestation or endangers biodiversity; a raw materials transition that strengthens the circular economy (see Chapter 2, "More circular economy, less waste"), and the transfer of technology and knowledge.
? Democratic participation and transparency must be guaranteed in negotiations! We want the full involvement of civil society, including smallholder initiatives, women's networks, indigenous groups, etc. and strong parliamentary participation in negotiations. We need high quality and sustainability standards for products and services as well as clear rules on data protection. Special rights of corporations to sue must be abolished.
? Overcoming hunger and poverty means securing the livelihoods of farmers and agricultural workers worldwide! We want to support regions in not primarily farming for export. There must be an end to food markets being flooded with food from outside - for example subsidized by the EU. We want to promote organic production worldwide and agree on international systems that protect against price erosion.
? The EU should no longer support large-scale commercial agricultural projects ("green revolution"), which often disregard the supply of the local population. We reject the promotion of agriculture with hybrid seeds, heavy artificial fertilization and pesticides that make farmers dependent on chemical companies. The same applies to projects in which the local population is displaced from traditional farmland due to a lack of proof of ownership. Instead, we rely on programs that combine local knowledge and new technologies in order to secure the social situation and food sovereignty of the local population.
? The monitoring and evaluation of existing projects must be improved with regard to human rights, in particular the right to food.
? The EU has concluded fishing agreements with almost all West African countries, allowing European fleets to fish off their coasts on a large scale. Since then, African fishermen have been complaining about a sharp decline in stocks. The EU must ensure that fishing there and in other parts of the world is not restricted by European fishing. Supplying the local population through local fishing has priority over international economic interests.
? We reject the Mercosur agreement as it is currently being negotiated. This means that Latin America will remain a mere supplier of raw materials, with negative consequences for the climate, species protection and human rights. The agreement primarily serves corporations and disregards the needs of people and nature. Instead, we want relations between the EU and Latin America on an equal footing through a partnership agreement that protects workers' rights and the environment in all participating countries and promotes sustainable economic development.
? The Left condemns the USA's comprehensive economic, trade and financial blockade against Cuba. It fundamentally violates the Cuban people's right to a self- determined path of development. The EU must use its influence to work towards ending the US blockade and removing Cuba f r o m	t h e	US list of "terror- supporting states". Against this backdrop, the EU's 2016 Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement with Cuba is of particular importance. In order to effectively implement this agreement and fill it with life, all member states of the
EU sign the agreement. The left rejects all attempts by right-wing forces in the EU Parliament to call this agreement into question.
? We support the UN treaty that obliges companies to respect the rights and dignity of employees. This gives employees the opportunity to assert their rights at their place of work anywhere in the world.
? We want an export ban on pesticides that are not permitted in the EU and its member states for environmental and health reasons. The goal of an agriculture without pesticides must be the basis of EU trade policy. (See Chapter 2, "For socio- ecological agriculture")
Global justice: canceling debt and financing development
Many countries in the Global South are in danger of suffocating under their debts. Over- indebtedness has dramatic consequences, as paying off interest leaves hardly any money for combating poverty, education and health. Instead of cutting debt, the EU finances development aid, for example through the Global Gateway initiative. Its main aim is to create incentives for private donors. This opens the door to lowering standards, deregulating markets and privatizing infrastructure. The initiative is being developed primarily on the basis of geostrategic considerations: as a counter-model to the Chinese Silk Road Initiative. It does not primarily serve to combat poverty. However, a global financing program must aim to improve the situation of local people.
? We are calling for a debt haircut and a sustainable debt relief initiative.
? We want the Global Gateway Initiative to focus on socio-ecological restructuring, transparent use of funds in partnership-based surpluses and clear human rights standards for companies.
? We reject the linking of development aid funds to isolation measures and border controls. The allocation of funds must not be tied to cooperation to prevent migration. (See Chapter 5, "Saving people: legal escape routes")
Chapter 5: More democracy, less lobbying
We are fighting for an EU in which democracy can be experienced every day. We want to strengthen people's rights - for more participation and co-determination, against surveillance and exploitation. We want to strengthen the European Parliament and limit the influence of powerful lobby groups in Brussels. Democracy must mean more equality in the distribution of social wealth and in living conditions in the various countries in Europe and Germany. And it means more joint debate and co- determination of the many in trade unions, companies, schools and universities, associations and movements in the decisions that affect the lives of everyone in Europe. Public services and social provision must not be destroyed by the pursuit of profit, speculation and the market.
Democracy is not a question of declarations and fine words. Democracy needs social foundations, social structures and services. A strong welfare state not only protects against poverty, it also makes social cohesion and society a tangible experience.
Fundamental rights are more than just a defense against arbitrariness and surveillance. The right to housing is a fundamental right, as is the right to the inviolability of the home. The right to one's own data must be defended just as much as the right to live free from poverty. The fight for a fair distribution of wealth, for equal living conditions in the EU and for functioning social services of general interest are inseparable from the fight for more democracy.
Since the social foundations of democracies in Europe have been eroded, the right has become stronger. Right-wing governments are mobilizing against the welfare state and democracy, against people's rights and against employment protection laws, women's rights, queer people and refugees. They are fueling racism and misanthropy.
The Left stands against the far-right movements and parties throughout Europe. We defend ourselves against the dismantling of democracy and fundamental rights. We are fighting against racism and discrimination everywhere. We want to deprive the right of its fuel: The feeling of so many people that things are not fair is right, but the responses of the right are wrong and harmful. They promote injustice and unfairness and strengthen the power of the powerful in the name of the powerless. They play opposition in order to prevent real social opposition for peace and social improvement.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is good, it must finally be respected. Fundamental rights in Europe must be inviolable and enforceable. Refugees who make their way to the European Union are also bearers of these fundamental rights. How the EU treats refugees says something about human dignity everywhere in the EU. We defend the rights of refugees to life and humane treatment. We are also defending the rights of all people.
Over the past few years, thousands of European citizens, non-governmental organizations, associations and trade unions have developed ideas for the further development of the EU and for reforms of the EU institutions as part of the Conference on the Future of Europe (CoFE). The Conference on the Future of Europe offered a transnational democratic process for the first time. In 2022, 49 proposals with numerous concrete recommendations for action on climate protection, energy, migration, foreign and security policy, mobility, social affairs, health and care, youth and education were presented as a result. These proposals reflect the expectations of the European
citizens: They want stronger public services, higher taxes for large companies, free education and childcare.
However, the proposals developed have not been bindingly incorporated into policy- making. The Left was part of the Conference on the Future of Europe, we share many of the demands and continue to advocate their realization. EU policy should be developed jointly in order to make the EU more sustainable and resilient with a view to combating the multiple cross-border crises.
Democratize EU institutions - strengthen the European Parliament
We want to overcome the permanent blockades within the EU - especially by the European Council - and give the regions greater co-determination. The right of initiative for EU laws lies solely with the EU Commission. Lobby groups have a strong institutionalized influence on the Commission in particular. We therefore call for
? The European Council is to be transformed into a second chamber.
? The European Parliament must be given an unrestricted right of initiative so that it can initiate legislative processes itself and thus develop policy.
? In the area of economic and monetary union, Parliament should be able to make decisions on an equal footing with the Council and the Euro Group.
? Only the European Parliament should be able to propose, elect and dismiss the Commission and the President of the Commission.
? The European Parliament should be given sole budgetary rights for its responsibilities. It should also exercise democratic control over the ECB. (See chapter 1,
"European monetary policy")
? The Committee of the Regions is to be strengthened by including it in the decision- making structure of the EU institutions. In future, the regions are to be effectively involved in policy-making. The Committee of the Regions will then no longer only formulate opinions of a recommendatory nature, but will also be able to have a say in Parliament's legislative initiatives and introduce them itself.
Putting a stop to lobbyism
An estimated 25,000 lobbyists with an annual budget of 1.5 billion euros influence the EU institutions in Brussels. Around 70 percent of them work for companies and trade associations. They enjoy privileged access to the commissioners. They exert massive influence on the legislative process and inundate MEPs with amendments to bills - or try to write the laws themselves. The Left Party wants to put a stop to the influence of pro-business lobbyists.
? We want to make bribery of MPs an effective criminal offense. The existing tougher penalties are not enough. Anyone who accepts consideration for actions or omissions in connection with the exercise of their mandate as a member of parliament should be punished. We want to abolish restrictions and exceptions.
? Members of parliament's fringe benefits must be published promptly and to the exact euro.
? We want to ban donations from companies and lobbyists to parties in the European Parliament and party sponsorship, such as company stands at party conferences, and limit donations from private individuals to 25,000 euros per year.
? We demand digitally readable, legally binding lobby and transparency registers that make the influence of lobby groups on legislation visible.
? Members of the European Commission who, after leaving office, move to private- sector companies whose economic interests they were previously politically involved with must adhere to a strict waiting period. The length of the waiting period should be based on their term of office and the resulting entitlement to a transitional allowance.
New treaties and a constitution for the EU
The left wants to unblock democracy in the European Union. The Maastricht and Lisbon Treaties have written neoliberalism into the foundations of the EU. We need a peaceful, social and democratic EU with changed treaty foundations, new structures and new hopes. A new constitution can only be developed by and with the people, trade unions, social movements and civil society actors in Europe. We want to create a public and democratic space for the debate on the constitution and the democratization of the institutions and push back the dominance of the European Council.
? That is why we are calling for a constitutional convention. Representatives from the EU member states should discuss a draft constitution together with trade unions, social and environmental associations and other non-governmental organizations. The results of the European Conference on the Future in 2022 are a good basis. The process of the Conference on the Future can serve as a model for the participation process of such a constitutional convention.
A change to the European treaties has been under serious discussion for the first time since 2007, as the crises of war and corona have made it clear that the neo-liberal foundations are not sustainable. The excessive debt regulations prevent long-term social tasks from being publicly financed in the long term. However, instead of bringing public services such as energy and water, railroads, postal services, telecommunications, education, healthcare, etc. back into public hands, bureaucratic and inefficient structures are being created to monitor the companies that provide these services in a common market. The consequences can be seen everywhere: Public services of general interest are being run down, healthcare systems are collapsing, rail and local transport are not working, there are huge gaps in education and there is far too little investment in sustainable energy and the economy.
? The Left demands that public direct investment by states and the ECB and the economic activity of the EU, federal government, federal states and local authorities to strengthen the social and ecological transformation of the economy and public services of general interest be included and strengthened in the EU treaties.
? The privatization of services must no longer be stipulated and promoted in contracts.
? The citizens of the candidate countries must be able to vote on accession to the EU in referendums.
? Accession must not be made conditional on the implementation of neoliberal economic reforms.
To get things moving: more citizen participation and direct democracy
More than three quarters of all European citizens would like to have a greater say in decision-making in the EU. Citizens' initiatives are an important means of achieving this. We are committed to ensuring that bureaucratic hurdles for initiatives are lowered and that the results are bindingly incorporated into the legislative process.
? Citizens in the EU should be given the right to help shape EU policy and initiate laws through referendums and popular demands.
? More citizens' councils to strengthen democracy! We demand that citizens' councils - comparable to the transformation councils - be set up across Europe. This should strengthen the voice and participation of citizens.
? The European Future Conference is to be made permanent in the form of regular Citizens' Councils on thematic priorities and the Commission's annual work program. This will enable citizens and young people in particular to contribute their ideas to future EU legislative projects in advance.
? The European Citizens' Initiative must be developed into fully valid EU citizens' legislation: Every successfully submitted European Citizens' Initiative must be submitted to the European Parliament for a decision so that it can be implemented in accordance with the applicable legislative procedure. The initiators should be given the right to carry out an EU citizens' petition and to seek an EU-wide referendum if the Parliament has rejected their initiative.
? We demand that the 49 proposals of the European Conference on the Future become the basis for the work of the next Commission, including the proposals that require treaty changes. We call on the candidates for the presidency of the Commission to publicly position themselves on this.
? An EU participation infrastructure needs a central online access point for all participation instruments. All participation instruments must be accessible and explained on the access point and citizens must be able to use it to network.
Strengthening fundamental and human rights - for all
We want to strengthen fundamental rights in Europe. The EU must finally accede to the European Convention on Human Rights. The Convention on Human Rights must be supplemented by the right to asylum and protection for refugees and made binding for every EU member state.
? In accordance with the revised European Social Charter of the Council of Europe, fundamental social rights must also be enforceable by individuals before the European Court of Justice.
? Social benefits in one state must not be restricted for citizens of other EU states, as is repeatedly demanded by the right in the case of child benefit. A decent minimum standard of living must be guaranteed at all times, regardless of residence status.
? No data storage without suspicion: The collection, processing and sharing of personal data within and between European and national authorities must be kept to a minimum.
? In order to prevent a violation of fundamental rights and to ensure the protection of everyone's privacy, we are calling for a Europe-wide ban on the
Use of facial recognition technology in public spaces. Studies show that such software is susceptible to inaccuracies, racial discrimination and identity fraud.
? We want the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the EU to be regularly evaluated on a country-specific basis and violations to be sanctioned by the European Court of Justice (ECJ).
? Improve rule of law mechanisms: If member states do not respect the EU's fundamental values, a stop to payments of funding must be regulated more precisely in future - for example, projects in the social sector, integration or education projects must not be jeopardized. In the event of serious violations of these fundamental values, the state in question should be stripped of its voting rights in the Council.
? Millions of people who have lived and worked here for decades should not be allowed to have a say in politics just because they have the wrong passport. We demand a common EU electoral law with active and passive voting rights for all people who live permanently in the EU.
? Young people must also be able to participate more in politics. At present, 16 and 17- year-olds are only allowed to vote in the European Parliament elections in four EU member states. We want the right to vote to be lowered to 16 in all EU member states.
? Germany must abandon its blockade stance and agree to the EU's Equal Treatment Directive, which prohibits discrimination based on age, sexual orientation, religion or disability, among other things. There must be no age discrimination in the EU. We reject the EU Commission's plans for compulsory and random checks on driving ability and temporary driving licenses.
The European Parliament has spoken out against racism and discrimination on various occasions - also on the initiative of the LEFT. Words must be followed by deeds:
? We want the EU to reliably promote cultural and linguistic diversity in Europe.
? The Copenhagen criteria for the protection of the rights of minorities, which all candidate countries signed up to in 2004, must be observed by all member states.
? The EU should work towards the Europe-wide recognition of the Yenish as a minority.
? Sinti*zze and Rom*nja have the right to make use of the freedom of movement regulations everywhere in the EU. Discriminatory special regulations must be abolished.
A union of equal rights: Gender equality - Europe-wide
Throughout Europe, women earn less than men, do more care work in the family and receive less pension in old age. Poorer women, mainly from Eastern Europe, care for people in need of care in countries such as Germany under undignified conditions.
Social inequality between women is growing: some have careers, others clean their homes. In Germany alone, a woman is killed every third day (femicide). For hundreds of thousands of women in Europe, violence by their partners is an everyday experience.
The left is fighting against
We are committed to improving the living conditions of all women, trans and other queer people. We are committed to improving the living conditions of all women and consistently protecting them from violence. For us, advancing equal rights at all levels is linked to struggles for good work and good wages, for a different distribution of social wealth and social (care) work, for sexual and gender self-determination, against exploitation and exclusion and against anti-feminism, homophobia and trans-hostility.
? Good work and social security for all women. Women often work in precarious, non- socially insured employment relationships. We want to transfer them to regular employment with good working conditions. For sectors whose business model is based on involuntary part-time work (for example in the retail trade), we demand the right to a full-time position.
? End wage discrimination across Europe - equal pay for work of equal value. We are committed to shorter working hours throughout Europe in order to create more equality between the sexes. We are proposing a reduction to around 30 hours per week (4-day week): with full pay and necessary staff compensation and for employees to choose flexibly over their professional biography. This would allow more men to take on unpaid care work. (See Chapter 1, "Redistributing for good work")
? We are fighting for anti-discrimination laws in all EU states with the right to bring collective actions.
? Combat sexism and strengthen women's rights: We want binding anti-sexism regulations in the public and private sector.
? Better pay and more staff in "women's professions" (care, social and educational services, retail). We support strikes by employees in these areas and their trade unions.
? Care work must be financially and socially upgraded: Better pay and good working conditions will make caring professions (such as nursing and education) more attractive (for men who lose their jobs in industry, for example). This is also an answer to the shortage of skilled workers. (See Chapter 1, "Redistributing for good work")
? We want to convert informal work in private households to provide 24-hour care for people in need of care ("live-in care") into regular employment relationships with social insurance, statutory working hours, vacations and a minimum wage.
? The conditions for family caregivers must be improved. (See Chapter 1, "Good health and care")
? Comprehensive care services for children and the elderly throughout Europe.
? The Istanbul Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence must be implemented unconditionally in all member states.
? Comprehensive care for women affected by violence with shelters, counseling services and psychological support. Digital violence against women must also be combated.
? Binding minimum standards for local medical care (outpatient and inpatient) in the event of illness and pregnancy (with pre- and postnatal care services). (See Chapter 1, "Good health and care")
? We want to provide more financial support for independent women's health facilities and initiatives as well as women-specific health research.
? Violence against women, trans and queer people and their persecution must be recognized as grounds for asylum throughout Europe.
? Specific support and psychological assistance is needed for victims of sexual violence from war zones and inhumane regimes.
? Needs-based accommodation and shelters for refugee women and their children as well as for trans and queer people. Specialist social education staff with gender- and queer-sensitive training in the shelters.
? Financial support for initiatives for the self-organization and representation of the interests of refugee women and queer people.
? Strengthen reproductive rights throughout Europe. Abolish all restrictions on the right to abortion in the criminal codes of EU member states. Financial support for alliances for sexual and bodily self-determination as well as medical students and doctors who campaign for the decriminalization of abortion.
? Free contraception (including the morning-after pill) for all. Funds must be made available for research into new contraceptives, especially for men.
? Safe and free access to abortion everywhere in Europe.
? EU-wide funding program for school and extracurricular educational work against sexism and queer hostility, which includes initiatives for those affected.
? Strengthen the rights of sex workers, improve their health care with low-threshold services and support their self-organization, enable safer places of work and prevent stigmatization, repression and criminalization of sex workers and clients.
? We want to better protect victims of human trafficking - including "human trafficking for sexual exploitation" - (right of residence, psychological support, legal aid and legal assistance, access to social benefits).
Queer, social and fair
The Left wants a Europe in which lesbian, gay, bi, trans, inter and non-binary (= queer) people can live free of fear, self-determined and socially secure lives.
This goal has not been achieved in any EU member state, even if the legal conditions for queer people have improved in some countries. At the same time, they have deteriorated in other countries. Across the EU, queer people are disproportionately affected by poverty and exclusion. This is particularly evident in the world of work, education and healthcare. The (self-determination) rights of trans, intersex and non- binary people are also not yet recognized in all EU member states. The EU Commission's LGBTIQ equality strategy is a step in the right direction. However, it must be supplemented to include issues such as homelessness, isolation and healthcare.
? More funding for the self-organization and representation of queer people's interests. The financial support for civil society initiatives and NGOs that stand up for their rights and concerns must be expanded and consolidated throughout Europe.
? National action plans against discrimination and for the equality of queer people in all member states, which are expanded to include social aspects so that socio- economically disadvantaged queer people also benefit from the programs.
? Projects to protect queer young people and older queer people from homelessness. Housing First offers for these groups.
? Knowledge about the social reality of queer people's lives in the EU must be improved. The EU should award research contracts for this purpose.
? Hate violence, especially against trans, intersex and non-binary people, must be prosecuted and punished more consistently. Hate crime must be recorded more accurately in statistics and published regularly. Discrimination by state authorities such as the police must be effectively combated.
? We want to strengthen the prevention of trans- and queer-hostile violence in all areas of society. Awareness-raising and sensitization measures are particularly necessary in education, child and youth welfare, administration and the world of work.
? Companies should be obliged to promote the independent self-organization of their queer employees with appropriate resources and to develop strategies against discrimination in the workplace.
? A self-determination law for trans, inter and non-binary people in all EU member states and uniform regulations regarding self-determined gender entry in official documents.
? More counseling and health centers for queer and especially for trans and inter people and comprehensive and free health care that is low-threshold and sensitive to discrimination.
? No leniency towards discrimination against queer communities by individual member states! The EU Commission must make consistent use of treaty violation proceedings. Germany should fundamentally participate as an intervener in these cases.
? The EU must also take a clear stance against human rights violations against queer people outside the EU and protest against them. Humanitarian visas for queer refugees!
? Currently, the rights of the parents of 2 million children in the EU are not fully recognized in another Member State. We want Europe-wide equality for rainbow families. The EU Commission has adopted a proposal for a regulation to this end. We are working to ensure that the European Council also adopts this proposal.
? Reform of parentage law so that children in rainbow families have equal rights. Children of lesbian, bisexual, trans, intersex and non-binary parents are still dependent on stepchild adoption in order to have a second legal parent.
? It must be possible to take on family responsibilities independently of marriage. Rainbow families, in which parenthood is not tied to the couple's constellation, and multiple parenthoods also need legal recognition.
? We want to base custody and visitation rights on the best interests of the child.
A socially just Europe must be inclusive
For an inclusive and social Europe, we demand the full participation of all people in all areas of society, regardless of skin color, language, sexual orientation or gender identity, whether they are old or young or live with a disability.
The Left is fighting for a Europe in which people with disabilities and chronic illnesses are not disadvantaged and marginalized. All EU member states are still a long way from achieving this goal. Improvements for the 80 million people in Europe who live with a disability are being blocked by the fact that some countries are preventing the implementation of the 5th EU Equality Directive at national level.
This also includes Germany. People with disabilities are at above-average risk of unemployment and poverty. Many people with disabilities have to live in residential facilities against their wishes. This violates their right to self-determination.
The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is insufficiently implemented in Germany, as a review by the United Nations for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities revealed this year. People with disabilities are still relegated to the highly developed system of special structures in school education, employment in workshops and large inpatient residential facilities. But only an inclusive society is democratic and socially just. In order to make an inclusive Europe a reality for all people under the motto "nothing about us without us", we call for the following:
? We want to strengthen the fight for equality and non-discrimination as a fundamental and general principle for the protection of human rights. Germany's blockade in the implementation of the 5th EU Equality Directive must be ended.
? All special institutions for people with disabilities - especially with regard to learning, working and living - must be abolished.
? Lifelong learning and an inclusive education system must be guaranteed at all levels, from nursery to university and beyond (Article 24 UN CRPD).
? We want an inclusive labor market. The statutory minimum wage must apply in all areas in which people with disabilities work.
? Disabled people must be able to decide for themselves how, where and with whom they want to live.
? The right to the highest attainable standard of health must be enforced without discrimination on the basis of disability (Article 25 of the UN CRPD).
? Refugees and asylum seekers with disabilities need special protection on the basis of the European Reception Directive for particularly vulnerable persons in the asylum procedure.
? Programs for the equality of women, girls and members of the queer communities with disabilities must be set up. They are confronted with multiple discrimination in all areas of life.
? Accessibility in the municipalities, including the entire public transport system.
? Accessibility must also be mandatory in the private sector, including online retail.
? Accessible communication must be possible for all people with disabilities according to their individual needs (blind and visually impaired people, deaf and hearing impaired people, people with learning difficulties). This must include digital accessibility.
? A European Disability Card, which gives people with disabilities access to special conditions in all Member States, must be introduced quickly.
? People with disabilities and their self-representation organizations must be able to participate in democratic processes without restrictions. Inclusive, barrier-free structures must also be created for this.
? To ensure that the right to vote can be exercised, technical means such as tactile templates, QR codes or instructions in easy-to-read language, sign language or Braille are required.
? All discrimination against people with disabilities in legal proceedings, especially with regard to special psychiatric laws and coercive medical or guardianship powers, must be abolished!
Fight against the right
Europe is experiencing a dangerous shift to the right. After decades of neoliberal dismantling of social rights, isolation from refugees and policies that have accepted the impoverishment of certain regions and countries, far-right parties are on the rise in many countries, and in some places they are already in government. All too often, the bourgeois parties adopt the language and demands of the far right, thereby strengthening them. The effect is an erosion of democracy, human rights and humanity at European level. This is inextricably linked to the militarization of society.
The left opposes the extreme right. We stand up everywhere against nationalism, nationalist ideologies and racism, against anti-Muslim racism and antiziganism, against anti-Semitism and homophobia, against all forms of misanthropy. The left stands and fights for the equality of all people: Human dignity is inviolable. Consequences must be drawn from the "Never again!" of liberation from fascism. That is our motivation and our mission. We take to the streets with anti-fascists throughout Europe and stand in the way of the neo-Nazis; we defend the public space against the right's attempts to spread fear there. The right wants to dismantle fundamental and civil rights and weaken democratic institutions. In contrast, Die Linke is committed to more democracy and more social rights.
There is no contradiction between the interests of the working class and the demands of feminism, anti-racism, the LGBTTIQ* movement and the fight against climate change. Solidarity is our weapon - it is indivisible!
? The recommendations of the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance and the Fundamental Rights Agency must be implemented in the Member States. If they are not implemented, sanctions must follow.
? The EU action plan against racism should be extended beyond 2025. Representatives of groups at risk of racism, experts and scientists must be included. In 2020, the majority of MEPs supported the Black Lives Matter movement in a resolution - but without legal consequences. The EU must exert influence on the member states to combat racial profiling, racist police violence and institutional racism.
? The Left demands that Europe-wide programs be financially strengthened to provide long-term and permanent funding for initiatives and projects against racism and other forms of discrimination. They should become part of a European preventive architecture against all forms of racism and neo-fascism.
? The far right is networked across Europe. This is why transnational monitoring projects must be created and supported. The findings on transnational links in right- wing terrorism must be pooled and evaluated.
? We want the victims of right-wing violence to have the right to stay in the EU in order to counter the perpetrators' intention to drive them out.
We condemn attacks on mosques, synagogues and other sacred or symbolic places. Left- wing people and structures are also repeatedly targeted
of right-wing attacks. We stand together and show solidarity with victims of right-wing violence and their families. They must be better supported in the long term. The Left is committed to making the Day of Liberation from Fascism and the End of War a public holiday throughout the EU.
Security instead of a surveillance state - police in a constitutional state
Under the slogans "combating cross-border crime" and "irregular" migration, the EU has massively expanded cooperation between security authorities in recent decades. It is based on extensive databases that affect one population group in particular: migrants. The "Interoperability Regulation" comprehensively links these databases via a common query portal: EURODAC to record asylum seekers, VIS to record visa applicants, the Entry/Exit System (EES) currently being developed to record all entries of third-country nationals and their residence permits, the European Travellers Identifcation and Authoriza- tion System (ETIAS) to record all third-country nationals who are exempt from the visa requirement. Biometric data is stored for all of them, which can be used to search the databases. In addition, there is the Schengen Information System (SIS), which includes wanted persons and objects as well as entry bans. Billions of euros have been spent on setting up systems that are intended to ensure that migrants are recorded without gaps and at the same time are an expression of general suspicion against this population group. Social movements and soccer fans are now also monitored across borders, and fundamental rights are repeatedly restricted during large demonstrations, for example.
We defend fundamental rights and want to expand democracy. We want to return from the huge data dumps costing billions to a system of mutual legal assistance in which the police authorities can request personal data from other authorities in individual cases.
The EU Commission regularly declares that it wants to t a k e action against racism and hate speech, but hardly presents any concrete measures. In Germany, unlawful police violence mainly affects poor people who are disproportionately members of non-white minorities and are subject to particular suspicion (racial profiling). Racist and disproportionate policing plays an important role in perpetuating origin-specific inequality in Europe.
? Measures that are based solely or largely on the external appearance of those affected must be prevented: Checks by police authorities without suspicion must be prohibited. We need clear guidelines for practice, which should include preventive training and strict measures for accountability and punishment of violations.
? We reject police raids that target migrant neighborhoods across the board. The same applies to the use of stigmatizing terms such as "clan crime" and
"social hotspots" as a basis for police work and justification for raids. We are committed to ensuring that ethnic categories are generally excluded from personal references in police work.
? The EU institutions should initiate a Europe-wide review of nationally applied police techniques and methods for detaining people and work with Member States to ban methods that can cause irreversible harm or death.
? The European Commission must provide guidelines for independent police complaints bodies and their powers to review police measures.
? The implementation of the Victim Protection Directive must be monitored. Victims of police brutality must be protected within the framework of the EU mechanism at national level.
? The increasing criminalization of social movements in the EU must be stopped. Protest and civil disobedience are legitimate and necessary for a living democracy.
The borders of democracy: No Fortress Europe
Almost 30,000 people have drowned in the Mediterranean since 2014. This terrible record of European isolationist policies must lead to a fundamental change in EU asylum policy. We stand for an EU that offers safe protection to refugees, that does not make deals with dictators and that outlaws war as a political tool. That finally prevents tens of thousands from drowning in the Mediterranean. Flight is not a crime! In its treaties, the EU has committed itself to complying with the Geneva Refugee Convention. It violates this every day: people seeking protection are mistreated at the EU's external borders and illegally pushed back. In June 2023, more than 500 people died off Pylos as a result of an attempted push-back by the Greek coast guard. Even behind the meter-high border fence on the Polish-Belarusian border, people seeking protection regularly die in frost and mud, i n some cases after being illegally pushed back by Poland. Nevertheless, the EU Commission did not initiate infringement proceedings against unlawful pushbacks. This deadly cronyism of isolationism must end! The border protection agency Frontex was at least indirectly involved in pushbacks or covered them up. International maritime law obliges us to rescue people in distress at sea, and they must not be returned to unsafe countries such as Libya.
The Left Party stands for a solidary and humane migration and asylum policy that takes the Geneva Refugee Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights and, overall, human rights and humanity as the yardstick for its actions.
Right-wing parties stoke fears that migration threatens prosperity. But prosperity and social security are under threat because borders are much more permeable for corporations and banks than for people fleeing war and misery. Against the grand coalition of isolationism, who want to sell us more fences and walls as solutions and accept tens of thousands of deaths, we are aiming for a society without isolation.
Saving people: Legal escape routes
The EU first concluded a comprehensive partnership agreement with Turkey and now with Tunisia, which provides for the protection of refugees at the EU's external borders in return for investment. Four months earlier, the European Parliament had criticized the many human rights violations in Tunisia: The parliament was suspended, journalists, judges and trade unionists were arbitrarily imprisoned. Now Tunisia is receiving 1.5 billion euros from the EU. That is a scandal.
Inhumane conditions prevail in the camps at the EU's external borders. Border and camp security is being upgraded. Human rights violations, torture, abduction and rape occur regularly.
? We reject an advance of border defense, be it in Africa or elsewhere. No deals with dictatorships!
? Sea bridges and ferries instead of Frontex! Frontex must be transformed into a European rescue mission.
? We call for an effective and fully-funded monitoring mechanism against pushbacks and human rights violations at the EU's external borders.
? Sea rescue is not only legal, it is mandatory under international maritime law. An EU-funded sea rescue mission is needed to end the mass deaths in the Mediterranean and ensure disembarkation in a safe port in the EU.
? As the EU is not fulfilling this obligation, civil society is trying to close this g a p . This commitment must be appreciated and supported instead of criminalizing it. Civil sea rescue must not be criminalized or systematically hindered.
? We need safe escape routes for refugees to the EU, humanitarian visas for legal entry and/or the lifting of the visa requirement for those seeking protection.
? Admission regulations for people in need of protection must be expanded, for example through the UNHCR's resettlement program.
? Poverty, environmental and climate refugees must be granted binding refugee rights. Nobody flees voluntarily!
? Border controls in the Schengen area and now also in Germany are illegal and we reject them. The "stationary border controls" take place primarily at the EU's eastern internal borders. Freedom of movement in the Schengen area was introduced in 1995 and is a major step forward. Asylum seekers must not be turned back and they must be able to apply for asylum regardless of which country they are in.
Asylum as a fundamental right - without restrictions
We reject the Common European Asylum System (CEAS). It is a moral declaration of bankruptcy and a cave-in to right-wing forces in Europe. It aggravates the situation at the external borders, imprisons people seeking protection and endangers human lives. No fair examination is possible in fast-track procedures and under detention conditions.
With this decision, EU governments are disenfranchising people in need of protection and raising the walls of Fortress Europe. Barbed wire instead of a welcoming culture is the message of the EU asylum reform.
? We want a humane and human rights-based reception system that guarantees the humane care and accommodation of people seeking protection at all times without restrictions.
? There must be no outsourcing of asylum procedures to third countries.
? Away from the "hotspot" policy: We demand humane reception conditions instead of camps where people seeking protection are detained under inhumane conditions with no prospects.
? The unfair Dublin system must be overcome and replaced by a system based on solidarity. When determining the host country, the legitimate interests of those seeking protection must be taken into account (e.g. family ties, language skills). Countries, cities and regions that are willing to accept refugees should receive special financial and structural support from EU funds.
? Family reunification must be guaranteed without restriction, especially for beneficiaries of international protection and other persons in need of protection who cannot return to their country of origin.
? We are fundamentally opposed to deportations, especially to war, persecution and misery or as a form of double punishment - in contrast to all other parliamentary groups in the Bundestag and the European Parliament. We have always voted against this and will continue to do so in the future.
? The individual needs of particularly vulnerable groups must be taken into account: queer refugees, unaccompanied minors and other vulnerable groups. Their special protection and assistance needs require qualified specialist staff and suitable accommodation. Civil society initiatives and NGOs that stand up for their rights and self-organization must be financially supported and strengthened.
? Unite families! The definition of family needs to be extended to same-sex partnerships not recognized in the countries of origin and to second-degree relatives, especially for unaccompanied minors.
Welcome needs structures
We want an EU fund for welcoming municipalities that ensures freedom of movement for refugees and helps welcoming municipalities and cities that show solidarity.
Municipalities that want to improve the conditions for a welcoming culture can apply for funding for the care and integration of refugees. They can use these investment funds for public services in general - this is how solidarity wins!
? We are calling for a social offensive for all, well-equipped public services and we want to combat shortages in local communities and on the ground.
? We want a European refugee levy in order to share responsibility fairly. It is based on the wishes and interests of the refugees and takes into account existing family ties, language skills and individual circumstances.
? Access for refugees and migrants to the labour market and international schools and the recognition of qualifications, professional qualifications and experience must be simplified. There must be low-threshold offers for language courses.
? EU-wide solutions require transnational cooperation and joint concepts. Interreg funds from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) are to be made available for cooperation between regions and countries within the EU for this purpose.
Legalization now!
No one is illegal! Hundreds of thousands of people live in Europe without papers or secure residence status. People with and without a right of residence or work permit perform work without which our everyday life and our economy would not function. They work - often for the lowest wages - in private households and i n care, agriculture, construction and the hospitality industry. Because they often have no residence papers or work permits, they are increasingly exposed to exploitation and fraud by employers or landlords.
? People without residence status often have no opportunity to take out health insurance. We want them to have access to good healthcare. They should not have to fear that doctors or hospitals will report them to the police or immigration authorities.
? People have a right to freedom of movement and a right to choose their place of residence. This is also required by the European Convention on Human Rights.
? People without papers must not be criminalized! We are committed to an EU-wide coordinated legalization campaign.
Learning together: Education
Education must be financed from public funds in line with demand. Funding for education programs in the EU has increased: Erasmus+, the flagship of the EU's education programs, and COSME, a program for the further education and employment of young people, among other things, received twice as much money in the last budget. The focus on "competitiveness" has remained. The European Education Area (EEA) should make access to education easier for everyone. However, more needs to be
done to eliminate inequality in education - as the 2022 Interim Report also shows. Inequality has worsened during the pandemic. Up to 32% of all learners were temporarily cut off from educational processes in spring 2020. In the European Parliament, the Left has been particularly committed to more access for the socially disadvantaged and more programs for teachers. We need socially open, critical and emancipatory education and correspondingly democratic, needs-based funded institutions. We are fighting for an education system that is publicly funded in line with needs and organized in a socially permeable way everywhere in Europe, from nursery school to doctorate, without fees.
? The education system is part of public services of general interest and must be publicly funded.
? We are committed to ensuring that EU education policy relates to the entire democratic education process and is not limited to the acquisition of knowledge in mathematics, information technology, natural sciences and technology (STEM subjects).
? Intercultural dialog, humanistic education, democratic exchange as well as independent and socially critical research and teaching are part of all inclusive educational approaches.
? We call for the reform of the Bologna system. Universities are more than just institutions for labor market qualification, as they were understood in the Bologna Process. Universities throughout Europe must be designed and understood as open, social and democratic institutions where teaching and research can develop freely and independently of the market and profit, but with social responsibility.
? Taking up an apprenticeship or course of study must ensure the right to stay and protect against deportation. We also want to enable academics who are politically persecuted to continue their academic work at universities in Germany and the EU.
For independent media and the right to criticism
The media must be able to report independently and critically so that people can participate in societal decisions in an informed manner. In the EU, too, journalists and activists for climate justice and human rights are being subjected to lawsuits with no prospect of success in order to intimidate them. The aim is to prevent public criticism or drive the relevant non-governmental organizations into bankruptcy.
? We are calling for the EU's new anti-SLAPP directive (SLAPP: Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation) to be tightened up.
? The planned media freedom law provides for the "protection of national security" as a possible reason for restricting press freedom. We reject this.
? Journalists affected should receive legal and psychological counseling and have their costs reimbursed.
? Media need publicity. European fictional and documentary productions should be made more accessible and findable throughout Europe.
? The Digital Services Act (DSA) is a threat to freedom of expression and the rule of law, as criticized by the international association of civil rights movements (European Digital Rights, EDRi). Proactive algorithmic filters used against social media users severely restrict freedom of expression. The proposed law strengthens economic interests against digital civil rights. Digital works created with the participation of the public sector or public companies must be published as digital commons under open licenses.
? We demand comprehensive protection for whistleblowers. So far, the new whistleblower law in the EU and Germany excludes secret services and their illegal operations.
Creative Europe
During the pandemic, many creatives across Europe have been forced into unemployment and the receipt of transfer payments. The working conditions of creative professionals must be crisis-proofed and regulated according to trade union standards.
? We want to strengthen a culture of sharing. Free access to and use of knowledge and culture must be safeguarded. This includes far-reaching fair use regulations, a shortening of the term of protection and barrier regulations for science and education.
? The European regulation on net neutrality must be tightened up so that Internet companies cannot continue to circumvent it with impunity.
? The European framework conditions for the rights of independent workers must be regulated by law and minimum wages and fees must be introduced.
? In order to create an EU-wide framework for better working conditions for cultural producers, the introduction of a Europe-wide "fair work label" in the creative sector should be examined. Such a label should be awarded to all concert offers, music titles, computer games, theater events, books and exhibitions if creative workers are well paid and have proper contracts.
? No double taxation for cross-border work for joint productions.
? The funds agreed for 2021 to 2027 for the Creative Europe MEDIA program to support the cultural and creative industries must be adapted to the current crisis situation and increased.
European remembrance policy
We call for a critical examination of the history of the EU. The reappraisal and remembrance of colonialism and the associated slave trade and slavery must become more present.
? A legal basis should be created for the EU for the restitution of unlawfully acquired cultural assets from colonial contexts and research into provenance should be expanded. The restitution of Nazi-looted art must also be regulated by law, as it was traded throughout the EU, among other things.
? The consequences of slavery still have an impact worldwide today through traditional and revived racism. We demand recognition for the victims. Legal regulations for compensation claims must be created. This is in the
European Convention on Human Rights, but is not enforced.
? A critical examination of the colonial legacy must become part of the curriculum.
? The purchase of currently looted cultural assets, for example from Syria and Iraq, by museums and private individuals must be stopped. Such goods must be returned.
? As sea levels rise and extreme weather events increase, it is becoming more difficult to preserve UNESCO World Heritage sites and monuments. We are calling for an EU program for maintenance and preservation, comparable to the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
Protect consumers
Companies, banks and corporations have the upper hand vis--vis consumers and often exploit their power - for example, in the case of emissions fraud by car manufacturers in the diesel scandal. The Left not only focuses on transparency, we also want to strengthen consumer rights. Many shady business practices target people on low incomes and senior citizens - for whom this rip-off hurts their wallets in particular. Consumer associations must be given more rights.
They bundle the individual interests of many people against companies, some of which are global. Even after the implementation of this EU directive, the protection of economic interests is still the primacy of association actions. The consumer associations must provide high liability securities and provide evidence of at least 50 claims.
? We call for an opt-out procedure like in the Netherlands, where consumers do not have to register in a register of complaints beforehand.
? There is a need for far-reaching information and disclosure rights vis--vis authorities and companies.
? Rights to lodge complaints with the authorities in order to be able to call on them to take concrete action against unfair companies must be created.
? The work of consumer organizations must be independent and adequately funded. Companies must be involved according to the polluter pays principle. State revenues from antitrust penalties and unfair corporate profits must flow directly to the organizations.
? Travel law: We want to create a general right to sue and claim damages, especially for booking portals - optionally in the country where the company is based and where the plaintiff/damaged party is located.
? Nutrition: Comprehensible and consumer-friendly nutrition labeling should become mandatory.
? We call for strict adherence to the precautionary principle in the regulation of endocrine disruptors.
? We need a chemicals policy that prioritizes human health. According to the EU Chemicals Regulation (REACH) to reduce the use of carcinogenic and non- biodegradable substances, it takes more than ten years before a chemical already in use can be banned. In contrast, we demand fast and reliable testing procedures.
? Limit values for the contamination of food and water with chemicals and/or germs must not be raised in order to protect the interests of individual industries, such as European fisheries. Economic policy
must not be at the expense of health, especially when it comes to the accumulation of substances in animal products.
? We call for a ban on toxic chemicals. Perfluorinated and polyfluorinated alkyl compounds (PFAS) are perpetual chemicals because they cannot be broken down by the environment. We welcome the fact that they may no longer be used for certain products. We call for the ban to be extended to all products.
Data protection and protection from state surveillance
We need strong European data protection that counteracts mass data storage by public and private actors. The European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) was adopted before the last European elections.
Since then, it has been undermined by the creation of closed data spaces, such as the European Health Data Space (EHDS). We want to counter this trend in the EU Commission. We are committed to the consistent implementation of the GDPR, especially when it comes to large corporations such as Facebook. Die Linke has campaigned for a complete ban on tracing and personalized advertising in order to put an end to unscrupulous business practices. In the Digital Services Act, Die Linke was able to push through a ban on personalized advertising for minors and better protection of personal data. The collection of highly sensitive data on health or sexual and political orientation for advertising purposes will be prohibited in future. We are committed to using data for the common good instead of for the profit of a few.
? With the GDPR and sector-specific data regulation, we want to prevent the further commercialization of data.
? The EU must put pressure on Ireland to impose billions in fines on Facebook for data protection violations.
? No lessons have been learned from Edward Snowden's revelations ten years ago: The exchange of data with the USA violates European data protection and must be stopped.
? We are calling for the long-planned ePrivacy Regulation. Private electronic communication must be more strongly protected. We reject mass scanning of private communication, as well as chat control.
? We generally reject the reading of end-to-end encrypted communication on end devices using spyware or state trojans (source telecommunication surveillance, online searches). It is a security risk, as vulnerabilities in the software are deliberately kept open - which can also be exploited by criminals.
? We take a critical view of the EU project for the digital wallet (EUid wallet) from a data protection perspective. The digital ID card must remain linked to a physical chip card in order to guarantee sufficient security. It must be ensured that personal data from the digital wallet cannot be linked or traced. The revision of the eIDAS Regulation must also not lead to private companies carrying out sovereign tasks in the future. Instead, we advocate the data-saving expansion of open source applications for the electronic ID card, including at EU level.
? People must not become the object of state data spying. The EU must uphold and defend the principle of separation of powers and the separation of police, secret services and the military.
? Data exchange between law enforcement authorities must be based on the rule of law and the rights of those affected must be strengthened. Data may only be exchanged in genuine cross-border investigations.
? We oppose blanket surveillance measures and blanket data exchange. Illegally acquired data may not be used in court proceedings in Germany and the EU.
? The numerous rulings of the European Court of Justice on the ban on data retention must finally be implemented.
The storage of passenger data without cause and the new entry and exit system for visa-free travelers must be abolished. With the Visa Information System, the Schengen Information System and the national PNR systems, the EU already has registers of over one hundred million people who have entered the EU in the past. Now data repositories with hundreds of millions more data records are being added: a new system for registering all persons who can enter the EU without a visa and a system in which all entries and the period of validity of entry and residence permits are stored. The data records contain all biometric data and are interlinked ("interoperability"). The police and intelligence services have access to this data. The sheer volume of this data alone makes formal data protection a farce.
Artificial intelligence applications are already being developed and used extensively in the areas of migration, asylum and border controls. Their use often leads to massive encroachments on the fundamental rights of those affected (right to privacy, data protection and procedural rights).
? We are therefore calling for a ban on AI-supported systems for individual risk assessment and risk profiling in the area of migration.
? AI-supported predictive analysis systems that are intended to prevent or restrict migration in the areas of migration, asylum and border control must be banned.
? We want to ban automated facial recognition and behavioral classification in public spaces.
? Hate crime and digital violence must be combated. We are committed to reporting and deleting. We reject chat controls.
? Anonymity on the Internet must be preserved. Age controls do not help to protect minors.
? New technologies such as artificial intelligence require third-party technology and fundamental rights impact assessments before new systems are introduced.
? We want to ban the export of surveillance technologies and technologies that can be used as weapons.
IT and data security
More and more processes are taking place digitally. Consumers and service providers (doctors, libraries, public authorities, etc.) are expected to use digital systems. The security of all IT products and thus the data they generate must not depend on the user's technical expertise or wallet. Rather, it is a social task to ensure the security of these systems and the data along the value chain in order to enable reliable data protection for all and prevent the digital divide from deepening even further.
? Data security through technology design and data protection-friendly default settings (by design and by default) must be a condition of approval for the European market (i.e. in the default settings of hardware and software and in the development of software).
? Mandatory security updates for the lifetime of the devices are necessary. We want to increase the minimum warranty obligation to five years (depending on the type of device). Manufacturer-independent use and updates beyond the warranty period must be possible.
? We want to prohibit the purchase, sale and exploitation of security vulnerabilities in IT systems by intelligence services, police authorities, etc. IT security gaps must be closed in the interests of all.
? We want to decriminalize IT security research, i.e. hacking, if it is carried out for the purpose of improving IT security.
? We want to promote open source development: This allows security vulnerabilities to be identified and rectified more quickly. (See Chapter 2, "Freeing the Internet from the cores")
Ensuring digital participation for all
In rural areas, there is often no network because the nationwide expansion is not profitable for private providers. People run out of data volume because they don't have enough money. Or they don't have a smartphone on which they can securely store their private data. There are many reasons why digital services can make it difficult for people to participate in society. We want the social divide to be reduced rather than deepened!
? The telecommunications networks are already connected by the corporations. We want to transfer the infrastructure of the networks to a public, European institution. We want to use the resulting efficiency gains to expand the networks.
? Long warranty periods for technical devices make it easier for people with less money to use digital services safely. The costs for digital devices, connections and data volumes must be taken into account in the standard rates for basic income support.
? The EU's digital wallet project (EUid wallet) must not be implemented in a way that excludes people who cannot afford or do not want the latest mobile phones. The versions of the EUid wallet currently under discussion would not run on most of today's smartphones. Companies should not be allowed to prescribe the use of the digital wallet for their services; we reject such compulsory apps. (See chapter 5: "Data protection and protection against state surveillance")
? Further training on computer and Internet use must be offered and financed across the board.
? At the same time, we are campaigning for the right to an analog life. It must always be possible to submit non-digital applications to the authorities, make inquiries to customer service, get tickets for the swimming pool, the train or the cinema - without additional fees. People must be able to discuss their concerns with a human being and receive support in an uncomplicated way, especially at public offices, doctors and elsewhere.
Finally
In our election manifesto, we have formulated what needs to change for a Europe of the people instead of the banks and corporations. Every single one of the measures mentioned would be an improvement. All of them together require a fundamental restructuring, a system change. In the European Parliament, we will stand up for each of the demands and goals mentioned and fight for every possible improvement. We can only achieve a democratic Europe based on peace and social equality that overcomes the logic of profit and the politics of war together. This requires the commitment of each and every one of us. Let's go for it!
www.die-linke.de

