
For a Europe of people, regions and nations in cultural diversity,
Peace and freedom.
Election program for the election to the European Parliament of the grassroots democratic party of Germany - dieBasis (as of 15.04.2024)
We distinguish between the European Union (EU) and Europe:
• Europe, which is a cultural, historically evolved geographical concept and living space, a continent that stretches from Portugal to the Urals, and
• The EU, which has developed into a supranational project driven primarily by economic and geopolitical interests, has become increasingly alienated from the people of this association of states and in some cases contradicts fundamental democratic principles and the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the basic treaties.
Our party dieBasis stands like no other for grassroots democracy, direct democracy, active subsidiarity and regional decision-making structures - not only within Germany, but also within the EU. It is extremely important that our voices are heard and that we are no longer patronized when it comes to the highly controversial EU issues at present. That is why the grassroots are taking part in the EU elections on June 9, 2024. We want to turn democracy in the EU upside down and make the voice of the citizens of the Federal Republic of Germany heard in the EU Parliament.
The people in the European Union are experiencing a progressive disenfranchisement and a weakening of national sovereignty rights while at the same time the decision-making power is being shifted to undemocratic, unelected EU institutions infiltrated by lobbyists. Year after year, new directives and regulations from Brussels reinforce the economic dominance of a few global corporations and elites. The socio-political effects of this cannot be overlooked. The gap between rich and poor and thus the social divide in the EU member states is becoming increasingly pronounced.
Not only is the low-wage sector growing rapidly, but the middle class is also currently under serious threat. Through its direct, massive military support for Ukraine and proximity to NATO, the EU is becoming a party to the conflict and the actual
"European peace project" at risk.
Our topics are democracy, peace, health, agriculture and nature, the environment, climate and energy, digital control, independent media, finance and cash, and migration.
I. For a grassroots democratic European Union - Giving the EU back to its citizens
The party dieBasis firmly rejects the status quo of the European Union (EU), which is perceived as undemocratic, and the efforts to transform the EU into a federal state (United States of Europe) with a binding EU constitution for the member states and the surrender of national sovereignty rights. dieBasis stands for subsidiarity and regional decision-making structures, for the participation of all citizens in important decisions, for EU-wide referendums, for the strengthening of citizens' rights and transparent decision-making processes in the EU.
More democracy is the core issue of Germany's grassroots democratic party for the upcoming EU parliamentary elections. The extent to which a juggernaut like the EU and its institutions can be reformed remains to be seen. According to a survey of members conducted in October 2023, many members of the dieBasis party can also imagine an orderly dissolution of the EU and a transition to a federation of sovereign states or even a DEXIT - especially if democratization and reform of the EU as a federation of states in the form of a significant reduction in the power of EU institutions and the creation of grassroots/direct democratic structures, as we outline below, is not possible.
? Fundamental change to EU structures and democratization of processes:
1. dieBasis calls for compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in the EU.
2. The sovereignty of the states must be respected and the different points of view and values of the countries must be respected.
People and companies in the EU are affected in many areas of everyday life by a flood of regulations and directives that lead to an immense bureaucratic burden and whose meaningfulness is becoming increasingly difficult to comprehend. The ever-increasing depth of regulation must be stopped. This means shifting legislative initiatives back to the small-scale (regional) decision-making structures of the nation states, unless the tasks in certain areas make a cooperation process appear more sensible (principle of subsidiarity).
3. The grassroots demand that the competences of the EU be reduced to a few essential areas.
reduce: Restrict to foreign and security policy, trade, financial and monetary policy.
The competences of the EU are enshrined in the Treaty on European Union (TEU) and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
At present, the EU has exclusive competence for the customs union, competition rules for the internal market, monetary policy for the eurozone countries, trade and international agreements (in certain cases).
In addition, there is so-called shared competence for the EU. This generally provides for the primacy of EU competence and now covers almost every area of daily life, resulting in a flood of regulations and directives whose depth of regulation affects every EU citizen.
In the sense of a self-determined and equal EU policy based on the principle of subsidiarity with regional decision-making structures, the competences via the EU treaties must be reduced to a few essential EU competences: e.g. customs union, competition rules for the internal market, monetary policy for the countries of the euro area, trade and international agreements (in certain cases), common foreign and security policy.
The areas to be transferred must be decided by the citizens of all member states.
4. National competences already transferred to the EU must not be passed on to transnational, partly private institutions.
Examples of this include: The World Health Organization (WHO) and free trade agreements such as CETA, TTIP and MERCOSUR.
5. With regard to the future of the EU Commission, the grassroots demand
a) the democratization of the EU Commission through the direct election of the Commission President.
The EU Commission is the "executive body". A direct election of the President of the European Commission by the citizens of the nation states would provide greater democratic legitimacy.
b) the creation of full transparency of decisions
of the EU Commission
Decisions of the EU Commission and their basis must be made public and comprehensible. We call for compliance with the provisions on full transparency in the Lisbon Treaty. This includes the listing of those involved as well as the disclosure of external consultants and any existing conflicts of interest. All legislative proposals and submissions on the respective topics must be documented and disclosed. Reasons must be given for whether or not these submissions are taken into account.
c) in the event of failure of a and b, the abolition of the EU Commission
The EU Commission should be dissolved if there appears to be no prospect of limiting its power and/or reforming it due to the considerable lack of transparency and democratic processes, its institutional independence and the influence of interest groups. The tasks of the EU Commission could then be transferred to the existing state bodies of the member states and, in part, to the European Parliament.
6. The distribution of seats in the EU Parliament must be proportional to the population.
Larger states generally have more MPs than smaller states, but smaller states have more MPs per inhabitant than larger states. This principle is known as "degressive proportionality". For example, Germany (83 million inhabitants) has 96 seats, i.e. one seat for every 811,000 inhabitants, Malta (0.4 million inhabitants) has
inhabitants) 6 seats, i.e. one seat for every 67,000 inhabitants. Proportionality (votes per inhabitant) should be significantly improved here in order to ensure a balanced representation of citizens' votes.
7. dieBasis demands the full legislative right of initiative of the EU Parliament.
One of the original tasks of a parliament is to submit draft legislation (right of initiative). The EU Parliament does not have this right of initiative. The EU Parliament must be given a full right of initiative in order to be able to represent the will of EU citizens.
8. dieBasis demands that the principle of unanimity of the member states be maintained.
Most laws and regulations in the EU require the approval of all member states. The major nations in the EU are thinking out loud about abolishing the unanimity principle for EU government votes. Even though it is becoming more and more difficult to reconcile these with an increasing number of member states and individual countries can block decisions, the principle of consensus and unanimity should not be abandoned from a grassroots democratic perspective, not least in order to limit the transatlantic influence (USA) on the EU.
9. dieBasis calls for the separation of powers to be respected in the EU.
The legislative (EU Parliament), executive (European Commission) and judiciary (European Court of Justice) as well as the media as a further supervisory body must be able to act independently of each other. The current one-sided power of the EU Commission must be dismantled. The control function of the EU Parliament vis-à-vis the EU Commission must be strengthened. The transfer of high-ranking representatives from one body to another, e.g. to the European Court of Justice, or to group boards or similar, is only permitted after a prior waiting period of five years.
10. No more costly moves of the European Parliament between two locations! Commitment to a fixed seat.
The seat of the European Parliament is Strasbourg, where twelve four-day plenary sessions are held each year. However, additional plenary sessions are currently also held in Brussels and the relocations cost millions. All parliamentary sessions must take place at a location to be determined by the EU citizens.
? Building grassroots democratic structures and empowering individual EU citizens:
11. dieBasis calls for the targeted promotion of EU-wide referendums on important issues and referendums.
dieBasis demands and supports EU-wide referendums as a means of grassroots/direct democracy.
12. dieBasis calls for a right of initiative for EU citizens by strengthening the ECI.
With a European Citizens' Initiative (ECI), EU citizens can propose legal acts in areas that fall within the competence of the EU. The party dieBasis supports the implementation of ECIs and calls for the ECI to be upgraded through a right of initiative and a significant reduction in the disproportionately high quorums (1 million signatures from a quarter of the EU states). Significant changes to the treaties are required here in order to simplify the procedure. Until the treaty amendments are implemented, theBasis will support European citizens' initiatives in their implementation.
13. dieBasis supports the establishment of a network of grassroots democratic parties in Europe.
dieBasis aims to strengthen grassroots democracy in all EU member states by actively promoting cooperation with parties and movements with similar objectives.
? The party's activities within the EU Parliament
14. With its presence in the EU Parliament, theBasis will create more transparency about EU structures and processes for the citizens of the member states.
One of the main tasks of our EU parliamentarians will be to make the democratic deficits and undesirable developments within the current EU structure clear to the public and to demand grassroots democratic solutions. This begins with information about the structures and processes in the EU.
15. With its presence in the EU Parliament, theBasis will ensure that citizens are informed about proposed legislation in good time.
16. Draft legislation must be published early and in full.
Our parliamentarians will make planned directives and regulations available to the public on the Internet as quickly as possible in order to create the greatest possible transparency and present all the advantages and disadvantages. The deadline for the
The period for taking note of bills must be sufficient in relation to the complexity of the bill, but at least two weeks, so that parliamentarians can deal with it responsibly.
17. We fundamentally reject laws in the omnibus procedure.
The term "omnibus procedure" is used when different issues are combined into one process and voted on as a package. The intention of the omnibus procedure is to hide parts of a bill in another bill. the grassroots parliamentarians will make such procedures public.
18. dieBasis will publicize and, if possible, prevent the abuse of power and the acceptance of advantages through lobbying.
So far, it has been like this: "The economy sets the direction and politics clears the way". dieBasis demands strict control of lobbying in order to prevent abuse of power and manipulation. Instead of a one-sided orientation of the EU towards economic and lobbying interests, we want a clear focus on the common good and fundamental rights and freedoms.
? EU enlargement:
19. An enlargement of the EU may only take place via referendums both in the accession country and in the existing EU countries.
20. dieBasis is against a geopolitically motivated enlargement of the EU.
The whether and how of EU enlargement must meet the needs of both the people in the accession states and the people in the member states, must be decided by them and must not be dominated by the geopolitical interests of global players (e.g. the USA).
II. For a foreign and security policy that promotes peace
The party dieBasis will also act as the party of peace in the EU and campaign for détente and peace in Europe and the world. dieBasis is the only party in Germany that demands military neutrality by withdrawing from NATO and banning foreign military forces, including nuclear weapons and military bases such as the Ramstein war hub, as a prerequisite for the lasting peaceful coexistence of all countries, states and peoples of the world.
dieBasis respects the free self-determination, territorial integrity, political independence and equal rights of all states, as formulated in the principles of the UN Charter of the United Nations and in international law. In our international relations, we advocate fair multilateral cooperation.
This results in the following program points for the EU parliamentary elections.
1. The militaristic character of the EU, with its ties to NATO, its commitment to rearmament, the abrogation of the right to life in the event of a riot or insurrection and the waging of wars for the sake of the interests of the people, must be recognized.
to overcome the threat to our senses.
The EU has taken on an increasingly militaristic character, and not just since the war in Ukraine. It is closely intertwined with NATO1 within the framework of the common security and defense policy and joint defense projects. In the EU Treaty, Article 42, paragraph 3, the Member States commit themselves to gradually improving their military capabilities2 . In the explanations to the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, a killing
"shall not be regarded as a violation of the Article on the right to life if it is caused by the use of force which is strictly necessary to put down, for example, a riot or insurrection lawfully".3 According to the Treaty on European Union (TEU), Article 42, paragraph 5, the Council "may entrust a group of Member States with the implementation of a mission within the framework of the Union in order to safeguard the Union's values and serve its interests"4 .
2. The party dieBasis fundamentally rejects sanctions and boycotts as a means of political conflict resolution.
Sanctions cause material damage and, in some cases, serious suffering for the civilian population. In Iraq, Iran and Syria (to name just a few countries), we have been able to observe the terrible consequences for the people living there for years.
Economic sanctions are part of a ruthless warfare that we reject.
The countries of this world are all part of a global community of nations that wants to cooperate economically and culturally in mutual respect for different social models. The principles to be observed in this respect were laid down in the United Nations Charter after the Second World War and are binding under international law. However, the population of a country must not be "punished" for the political actions of its government.
3. Dialogue and the overcoming of camp and bloc thinking must be promoted.
4. dieBasis calls for the dismantling of enemy stereotypes that serve to legitimize geopolitical conflicts and wars.
5. dieBasis calls for the EU to work to end wars through de-escalation and diplomacy.
1 Factsheet Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO) "Coherence with NATO is ensured." https://www.eeas.europa.eu/sites/default/files/pesco_factsheet_2021-12.pdf
2 Treaty on European Union (TEU), Article 42, paragraph 3. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/resource.html?uri=cellar:2bf140bf-a3f8-4ab2-b506- fd71826e6da6.0020.02/DOC_1&format=PDF
3 Explanations on the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights (Official Journal C 303). https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal- content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32007X1214(01)
4 Treaty on European Union (TEU), Article 42, paragraph 5. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/resource.html?uri=cellar:2bf140bf-a3f8-4ab2-b506- fd71826e6da6.0020.02/DOC_1&format=PDF
Bloc thinking inevitably leads to escalating conflicts and alienation instead of rapprochement and peace. The almost forgotten ten principles of the 1975 Helsinki Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) for regulating bilateral relations must be brought back to life. These principles include
including the peaceful settlement of disputes, non-interference in the internal affairs of other states, respect for the equal rights and self-determination of peoples and the fulfillment of obligations under international law. The ever closer connection between the EU and NATO only promotes bloc thinking and is therefore rejected by the dieBasis party.
6. The party dieBasis is committed to a European security policy in which the security interests of all states must be recognized equally.
7. DieBasis calls for an increase in European funding for peace research and international understanding instead of arms exports.
The party dieBasis rejects war in general and especially as a means of enforcing interests. Conflicts of interest between states must be resolved by diplomatic means. TheBasis party advocates an immediate stop to all arms deliveries from the EU to crisis and war zones.
Instead, we need a return to a policy of détente, disarmament treaties and an increase in funding for peace research and international understanding.
A first de-escalating step in the Ukraine conflict should be diplomatic efforts to settle the conflict peacefully instead of continuing to pursue the logic of military escalation.
8. The party dieBasis demands the establishment of an independent international investigation committee on Nordstream 1+2.
9. dieBasis advocates negotiations and cooperation with Russia for the early resumption of gas supplies via the intact pipe of the Nordstream II pipeline.
The party dieBasis advocates that the responsible investigative authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany, if possible together with the neighboring states and the EU, start investigations to find out who destroyed or severely damaged the three Nordstream 1+2 pipelines in September 2022, which are essential for securing cheap energy in the Federal Republic of Germany and the EU. To this end, an independent international committee of inquiry must be set up, with the involvement of Russia and the USA. Those responsible must be held accountable and the repairable pipelines must be put back into operation as quickly as possible.
III. People at the center of the healthcare system
? General topics on the healthcare system in the EU
The EU's tendency to hand over more and more powers to non-democratically elected organizations that are beyond parliamentary control also applies to the healthcare sector and must be stopped. The healthcare sector in particular is affected by the expansion of the digitalization of personal, highly sensitive data and its use for research in the digital health space across the EU. This is intended to facilitate the exchange of health data between medical institutions and healthcare providers in different EU countries. The planned European Digital Health Data Space (EHDS)5 refers to the primary and secondary use of health data. Primary use refers to the digitization of health data (electronic patient file), which also includes the planned digital vaccination certificate for travel.
Secondary use of data refers to the potential uses for science and research for political control and regulation. This results in the following general positions on the European healthcare system:
1. dieBasis wants to leave health-related regulations and measures in the exclusive competence of the respective EU member state.
2. dieBasis calls for the transfer of health-related competencies already transferred to the EU back to the member states.
3. We reject the "digital health space".
4. Health data is personal and only relevant in the patient-doctor relationship. This data may only be passed on to third parties ("primary and secondary use") (even anonymized) with individual consent.
5. We reject a mandatory digital EU health passport (e.g. as a travel document) and a mandatory electronic patient file.
6. dieBasis is against the automated transfer of private health data to research institutions and the pharmaceutical industry for data protection reasons and to ensure that personal rights are protected.
? WHO
Since it was founded in Geneva in 1948, the World Health Organization (WHO) has been active worldwide as a specialized agency of the United Nations for the promotion of public health and the collection of data on serious diseases. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the WHO has come under international scrutiny, at the latest due to the recommendation of inadequately tested
"Vaccines" have also come under criticism.
The WHO is largely financed by earmarked donations from influential organizations and special government payments. In 2022, for example, according to the WHO's financial report, only around 11% of funds came from mandatory contributions from member states, everything else was voluntary contributions, including $597 million from Germany and $193 million from the EU. The largest private sponsor of the WHO, with $390 million and just under 10% of the WHO's total funding, is the private Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which is a major investor in the pharmaceutical industry, among others. These donations are generally earmarked and primarily finance vaccination campaigns, polio programs and emergency aid in the event of cholera outbreaks, for example.
7. Financial and personal links between the EU, WHO and the pharmaceutical industry must be disclosed.
8. dieBasis calls for the EU to stop providing financial support to the WHO.
9. Partially privately financed organizations must not be allowed to determine the health of citizens.
10. The WHO must not be used as an instrument for private interests.
5 https://health.ec.europa.eu/ehealth-digital-health-and-care/european-health-data-space_de
11. The WHO must no longer be exempt from control and liability for the negative consequences of its recommendations for action - drugs, vaccines, mRNA technologies and treatment protocols.
The WHO is currently working on an international pandemic treaty, which is intended to transfer national competencies to the WHO in the event of a self-proclaimed pandemic. The definition of a pandemic, together with the definition of vaccination and herd immunity, was arbitrarily changed by the WHO in 2009 without scientific justification. In the definition of a pandemic, both the severity of the course of the disease and the mortality rate are no longer prerequisites for declaring a pandemic. According to the WHO, a pandemic is a situation in which the global population is potentially exposed to a "new" pathogen and there is a risk that some of them will fall ill. With the international pandemic treaty, member states would in future be bound by the respective measures decreed by the WHO, regardless of national legislation. This includes mandatory vaccination campaigns, medication regulations and lockdowns. Germany and the EU support the introduction of such a global pandemic treaty. In view of this seriously dangerous development in the WHO, the following demands arise for the grassroots:
12. The national sovereignty of states must not be restricted by the WHO (e.g. through a pandemic treaty).
13. The WHO must not declare a global health emergency with mandatory measures.
14. The WHO is not allowed to prescribe mandatory vaccinations, therapies or medication.
15. The WHO should continue to only advise the countries, but may not prescribe and implement any mandatory health measures in the countries.
16. The citizens of the member states are to be asked to approve the pandemic treaty in a referendum.
17. dieBasis calls on the WHO to return to the original definition of a pandemic.
18. dieBasis calls for Germany to leave the WHO.
19. Under the current conditions, the grassroots are calling for the WHO to be dissolved and replaced by an independent institution that is not commercially and politically instrumentalized.
? I.H.R. - (International Health Regulations) International Health Regulations of the WHO
In addition to the submission of the pandemic treaty, at the request of the USA (2022), the
I.H.R. from 2005 and adapted to current circumstances. These guidelines are legally binding. They are intended to give the WHO decision-making authority in the areas of business, trade and travel, even in climate-related crisis situations, as far as is known and subject to the approval of the member states. The WHO assumes that all areas of life must be included in the IHR.
20. Fundamental and human rights must apply unconditionally - even in times of emergency.
21. dieBasis calls for the WHO to be denied the right to a higher legal system that places itself above national law and can, for example, override the Basic Law.
22. Article 2, para. 2 of the German Basic Law regarding the integrity of the body is inviolable and should not be able to be repealed by the WHO.
23. In Germany, health policy is the responsibility of the federal states and is carried out in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity in coordination with each other and with the recommendation of the Federal Ministry of Health. This federal structure must be maintained.
24. The WHO must not be able to declare a "climate emergency".
25. The power that the sovereign has transferred to the parliaments and governments of nation states through elections must not be passed on to undemocratic organizations such as the WHO.
? COVID-19 pandemic measures
To date, there has been no review of the measures and mistakes made during the coronavirus pandemic at EU level. So far, neither the pharmaceutical industry nor those responsible have been held accountable. In particular, Commission President von der Leyen's arbitrary decisions regarding the procurement of Covid-19 "vaccines" and possible allegations of corruption in this context have not been clarified either politically or legally.
26. The pharmaceutical industry must not be exempt from liability for medicines, vaccines and medical products.
27. The politicians and officials responsible must be held accountable for deliberately wrong decisions.
28. dieBasis is calling for a "Nuremberg 2.0" court case to review the measures taken in connection with the coronavirus pandemic and their consequences.
29. We call for a complete and transparent investigation into the suspicions of corruption against the European Commission and the Commission President.
30. In the event of demonstrable, deliberate criminal acts and gross negligence in connection with the coronavirus pandemic and the measures implemented, those responsible must be charged.
? European Medicines Agency EMA
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is an agency of the European Union. The task of the EMA, by definition, is to ensure the scientific evaluation, monitoring and safety assessment of medicinal products for human and veterinary use in the EU. It is 86% funded by fees and charges from the pharmaceutical industry and only 14% from EU funds, making it susceptible to lobbying and corruption by the pharmaceutical industry. Like the WHO, however, the EMA has far-reaching powers that affect the health of all EU citizens.
31. dieBasis firmly rejects drug and vaccine approval via the EMA, which is 86% funded by the pharmaceutical industry.
32. dieBasis calls for drug and vaccine approval exclusively at national level.
? Responsible handling of radio radiation
Electrical devices, wireless technologies and power lines generate electromagnetic fields (EMF) whose harmful effects on the health of humans, animals and plants have been proven by studies worldwide, but this is still the subject of controversial debate. There is an increasing number of electro-hypersensitive people who feel that their health is impaired by radio exposure and are therefore no longer able to participate in public life and only to a limited extent in working life. With the spread of EMF-based radio technologies, i.e. more and more cell phones, WLAN and other wireless devices, the exposure
even increase due to electrosmog.
33. dieBasis advocates independent scientific studies on the effects of increasing exposure to electrosmog on humans, animals and plants and the setting of appropriate limits in the EU.
34. dieBasis is committed to the precautionary reduction of radio pollution in public spaces, hotels and means of transportation to protect biosystems from oxidative stress; especially to protect children and electrohypersensitives.
35. dieBasis is committed to low-radio living spaces (e.g. in public rail transport, hospitals, public authorities) so that electrohypersensitives can participate in public life again.
36. dieBasis is committed to greater consumer protection for electronic devices, in that WLAN must be self-determined, easy and visible to switch off, and operating instructions must provide explanations.
IV. For healthy agriculture and an intact natural environment
The recent farmers' protests in Germany, but also in the Netherlands, France and other European countries have shown this: The completely misguided EU agricultural policy with its countless regulations and subsidies is at an end and is no longer supported by those affected. dieBasis takes the concerns and proposals of farmers and consumers seriously and will bring them to the EU Parliament.
The EU's environmental and agricultural policy must be fundamentally redefined and shaped according to the principle of subsidiarity.
Alignment with social and human goals
Our aim is to produce our own staple foods in the EU on the basis of natural soil fertility and species- appropriate animal husbandry, and to nurture and care for our established cultural landscapes.
The main concern of the dieBasis party is to support and develop local people, rural agriculture, regional structures and a circular economy that is as complete as possible.
Instead of aligning the common agricultural policy with the corporate interests of the agricultural and food industry and climate lobbyists, we are calling for decentralized and diverse solutions that are developed together by consumers and farmers in a personal exchange on the ground and offer prospects for organic and conventional farmers.
Education and research in the service of people and nature are important building blocks in this respect, in order to give consumers and farmers the tools to make free and well-informed decisions about their food and farming practices.
Demands for animal welfare, healthy nutrition, nature conservation and sustainable forestry complete our program.
? De-bureaucratization:
1. The mis/over-regulation and excessive bureaucracy to which farmers in the EU are exposed must be reduced.
2. Control and administrative tasks must not be shifted to agricultural producers.
3. There must be no reversal of the burden of proof - the farmers should get out of the role of suspects who always have to prove that they are innocent.
Increasingly complicated regulations, such as the Fertilizer Ordinance, animal welfare regulations and regulations on land promotion, have created a web of rules that is difficult to understand and implement. However, the intended protection of consumers, groundwater, animal welfare and biodiversity cannot be achieved through ever more bans and controls as well as contradictory and counterproductive regulations. The excessive bureaucracy has led to farmers spending more and more time on administrative and documentation tasks in the office, which they then lack for their actual work in the fields and stables.
As a result, small farmers in particular are being driven to give up.
4. Digitalization must not lead to disadvantages for those affected.
Without computers and the Internet, it is no longer possible to meet all administrative requirements. We are in favour of the efficient use of digitalization. However, farmers should be free to decide for themselves what is used on their farms. It must still be possible to farm without digital equipment.
5. We reject the monitoring of companies by AI and satellites.
Current developments, such as the seamless monitoring of fields by AI and satellite- supported systems, which are also very error-prone, are leading to less and less freedom of choice. Farmers feel increasingly constrained.
6. Constant changes to specifications jeopardize the planning security of companies and should therefore be avoided.
As the rules are also changed abruptly every few years, it is almost impossible to plan for the future, as investments, e.g. in new stables, need a reliable basis. It is becoming increasingly difficult for small farms in particular to find new and innovative solutions.
? Decentralization:
7. The farmers and consumers affected should have a real say in legislative decisions and regulations at EU level.
8. EU-wide directives and regulations should only create framework conditions; as many decisions as possible should be made locally / by the lowest responsible decision-making bodies
9. The influence of large corporations and industry as well as unelected
The influence of lobbyists must be pushed back and limited with clear rules.
The "European Green Deal" or the "Farm-to-Fork" program are pure products of the EU administration, which are rejected by the party dieBasis. The content of the regulations is only ever coordinated at the various levels of administration down to the level of the federal states, represented by the respective ministries. There is no democratic process involving the active participation of various parliaments or even the farmers and consumers affected. Representing farmers and consumers would require associations that are organized independently and democratically. Instead, numerous interest groups, non-governmental organizations and lobbyists in Brussels are involved in the development and design of agricultural and environmental policies and implementation programmes.
10. Focusing agriculture on the food sovereignty of the population in the EU and only secondarily on the world market.
Extremely low world market prices have meant that farmers have become the big losers in this system. Global trading groups, the agrochemical industry, food companies and stock market speculators are the main beneficiaries of the world market. We want to redirect these cash flows, ensure that the EU is fully self-sufficient in food and ensure significantly higher producer prices without a major increase in consumer prices. Agricultural products that are highly subsidized in the EU may no longer be exported in this form, as they displace local agricultural products in the target countries.
11. If there are support programs, then the promotion of the local circular economy and small, regional structures in food production and marketing.
dieBasis focuses on structures that are as small-scale as possible, grassroots democratic decisions and more personal responsibility on the part of farmers and consumers. The shorter the path from farmer to consumer, the fewer bureaucratic hurdles there should be.
? Future prospects for farmers:
12. dieBasis is committed to the preservation of rural agriculture.
13. Land grabbing by large investors must be stopped.
14. dieBasis calls for a move away from the system of agricultural support (subsidies) towards fair pricing for agricultural products.
Many independent farmers and a broad distribution of ownership, including in agriculture, are the guarantee of our food sovereignty. Land grabbing by agricultural corporations and large investors does not only exist in the Global South, but also in our country and endangers our peasant agriculture.
EU agricultural subsidies are the largest single item in the budget. The EU pumps billions into agriculture, but it mainly supports landowners and large farms. We therefore want EU subsidies for large investors to be capped and instead advocate an expansion of support for small farms producing for the regional market. The dieBasis party questions the current EU agricultural policy and advocates fundamental changes in the direction of cost- covering producer prices that value the services of farmers and less state support for large agricultural businesses.
As long as the subsidy system remains in place, we are against further cuts for smaller farms without the additional costs being passed on to consumers via prices.
In the long term, we intend to make state subsidies for agricultural businesses superfluous and instead find solutions that also enable small businesses to make a living from their products and services for society (landscape conservation).
15. Imported food must meet EU standards.
16. No free trade agreements (e.g. TTIP, CETA, MERCOSUR), but on the contrary protective tariffs on goods that can also be produced in the domestic market.
We only want to trade freely with companies and countries that produce to our social and ecological standards. Current free trade agreements such as CETA and MERCOSUR are designed in such a way that they only bring disadvantages for farmers, consumers and the environment. As a result, cheap products from abroad are forcing their way onto the domestic market, some of which are produced using pesticides that have been banned in the EU for decades, have been genetically modified or are produced under inhumane working conditions. Under these circumstances, domestic agriculture cannot be competitive.
17. The grassroots demand that agricultural land (fields, meadows and pastures) be preserved for food production.
18. The services for the preservation of the cultural landscape should be adequately remunerated.
19. Farmers' seed autonomy, i.e. free access to seed even without license and reproduction fees, must be guaranteed.
20. There must be no patents on nature, i.e. plants, animals and seeds.
Instead of becoming increasingly dependent on foreign countries in the area of food production, as is already the case with energy supply and the supply of medicines, we are in favor of strengthening agriculture and thus preserving our diverse and small-scale cultural landscape. This also includes the breeding of
and adapted local varieties as well as the preservation of old crop varieties and animal breeds and the preservation of pasture farming. Farmers must not become dependent on agricultural corporations that patent plants bred using new genetic engineering techniques. Without meadows and fields, a large part of our diverse flora and fauna will also disappear!
21. We reject the use of genetically modified organisms, in particular genome editing with new methods such as CRISPR/Cas.
22. dieBasis demands the safeguarding of GMO-free cultivation and organic plant breeding.
According to current regulations, old and new genetic engineering is subject to EU approval. This guarantees a risk assessment for human health and the environment, transparency for manufacturers and farmers and clear labeling for consumers. dieBasis rejects the EU's deregulation of genetic engineering. Under this proposal, the vast majority of plants that have been genetically modified using novel genetic engineering techniques would simply be waved through onto the market - without any approval procedure, without risk assessment and without labeling! This would prevent farmers, food producers, retailers and every single citizen from choosing GMO-free products.
The new genetic engineering is neither sustainable, nor does it reduce pesticides or protect the climate. Rather, it is about massively increasing corporate profits, as plants bred using new genetic engineering can be patented and varieties are reduced to a few genetically monotonous species with copyright protection.
The genetically modified plants would be released into the environment in an uncontrollable and irreversible manner, without even the slightest research into the possible ecological and health consequences.
23. We are against photovoltaic systems on arable land unless the land can still be used for agriculture.
Fertile arable land should generally be used for food production and not for energy generation. Photovoltaic systems on arable land and meadows can only be considered as an exception if the technology used (e.g. agrophotovoltaics) does not restrict the agricultural use of the land and does not destroy the landscape.
? Consumer protection, nutrition:
24. There is a need for honest and comprehensive food labeling as a basis for informed purchasing decisions.
25. dieBasis calls for the transparent labeling of food, especially when animal ingredients, including insects, are added and when genetically modified feed is used.
26. dieBasis is against artificial meat and vegetable production from laboratories, factories and 3D printers ("vertical farming", synthetic laboratory meat).
27. Food security in the EU must be guaranteed within the EU without dependence on foreign countries.
Politics must not dictate what we have to eat. We want to create framework conditions that enable us to do without industrially produced food. Healthy, minimally processed organic products and
Responsibly produced conventional products are more expensive than mass-produced, highly processed food made with cheap additives. If the damage to society and nature were also taken into account, the cost ratio would probably be reversed. The internal market must be regulated in such a way that healthy, natural food reaches the consumer via short transportation routes. The origin of the food and the quality of production should be clearly and easily recognizable.
Consumers must be able to choose products that meet their expectations of a healthy diet or species-appropriate animal husbandry, even without extensive prior knowledge.
28. VAT on unprocessed basic foodstuffs from the internal market is to be set to zero.
29. By promoting direct marketing, the aim is to reduce the increase in food prices caused by intermediate trade and speculation and to ensure that more of the food is produced by the producer.
remain.
30. Food must not be an object of speculation.
Food needs more appreciation and higher prices for producers, but must also remain affordable. Price increases can be counteracted by shortening trade routes, reducing intermediate trade, lowering VAT and banning speculation on food on world market exchanges.
? Animal welfare:
31. Industrial, especially cruel factory farming should be abolished.
32. Cheap imports of mass-produced animal products should be prevented.
33. dieBasis supports the promotion of pasture farming.
34. The transportation of live animals in and out of the EU should be stopped.
35. We reject compulsory vaccinations and mRNA vaccinations in livestock farming.
36. Homeopathic applications in animal husbandry must remain possible without restriction.
The members of the dieBasis party are concerned not to cause unnecessary suffering to the animal world and to live together in peaceful coexistence with wild and domestic animals.
Domestic livestock farming is currently competing with cheap production abroad, which has led to a compulsion to produce more and more on less and less land. Excesses such as cruel breeding, e.g. of turkeys with huge breasts or cows with extremely large udders, have also resulted from this pressure to produce more and more cheaply. Higher standards of animal welfare, which are desired by many consumers, can only be realized by the farms if the products produced with more effort also find buyers. Buyers have a responsibility here. As long as they only pay attention to the price when shopping, nothing can change. We would therefore like to see a higher appreciation of animal products in the future, so that more animal-friendly husbandry becomes possible. As our fellow creatures, animals deserve respect and care. With species-appropriate animal husbandry, fewer vaccinations and medicines are needed. The profession of veterinary practitioner and naturopathic and homeopathic therapies for animals should be preserved.
? Nature conservation:
37. The use of pesticides and artificial fertilizers is to be restricted to defined limits.
38. dieBasis is committed to promoting the conversion to organic farming.
39. dieBasis is committed to promoting research into innovative agricultural cultivation methods (such as permaculture).
40. The authorization for glyphosate must be withdrawn.
41. Technological innovations are to be developed and traditional fertilization and plant protection methods are to be revived in order to offer alternatives to the use of pesticides and artificial fertilizers.
42. Independent research is needed to determine the actual impact of the
agricultural methods and inputs on nature, biodiversity, the environment and health.
What consumers and society want from agriculture is very clear: biodiversity, the cultivated landscape and natural resources such as fertile soil, clean water and healthy forests should be preserved. However, unilateral bans, more and more laws and more precise regulations are not the right way to achieve these goals. No farmer will intentionally harm nature and animals. We need to create a framework that enables farmers to farm in harmony with nature. Research and education in the service of people and nature are important building blocks in this respect, in order to give consumers and farmers the tools to make free and well-informed decisions about their food and farming practices.
43. The consumption and sealing of land through development must be greatly reduced. be restricted so as not to further reduce the areas available for nature and agriculture.
Until now, this issue has been the responsibility of the nation states. For some years now, the EU has been addressing this issue in various strategies. The envisaged restoration of ecosystems is to be welcomed in principle. However, instead of depriving agriculture of land for nature conservation across the board through the planned permanent set-aside of 4% of all farmland (even though the regulation has been suspended for 2023 and 2024), differentiation should be made according to farm size (with an exception for small farms) and the pressure of urban and industrial land expansion on agriculture should be reduced.
44. Drinking water is a fundamental right. There must be no privatization of water rights.
45. Drinking water supply must take precedence over industrial use and economic interests.
46. Water supply and disposal as a public service belong in municipal hands and must not be operated for profit.
47. We are calling for more sustainable water management: when extracting and using water, it must be ensured that the groundwater table and the natural water cycle are maintained.
? Forest
48. Pristine natural forests require special protection.
Natural forests that are still largely intact must be preserved and given special protection. The undermining of nature conservation under the alibi of climate protection, such as
e.g. for the erection of wind turbines in the Reinhardswald in Hesse.
49. Forest policy should be a matter for nation states, as the heterogeneity means that there are no generally applicable rules, such as uniform regulations for deforestation- free forests.
supply chains can apply in the EU (subsidiarity principle).
Until mid-2023, forests were not a resource that was over-regulated by EU regulations. And it should remain so, as forest management in Germany and most European countries largely complies with the principles of sustainable forest management.
With the new EU Forest Strategy 2030 as part of the Green Deal
However, the EU's forestry policy provides for restrictions on the diversity of forest management by means of large-scale external utilization, restrictions on timber harvesting and interventions in property rights. dieBasis supports sustainable forest management by foresters and forest farmers and rejects EU interference in forest management apart from incentives for natural regeneration and afforestation in regions of the EU with low forest cover.
V. Environmental protection, services of general interest and openness to technology instead of climate ideology
For many years, politicians and the media have been talking and writing about the fact that global warming is leading to a climate catastrophe for humanity and the planet. The EU - especially Germany - once again wants to be a pioneer for solutions. The climate argument is used to justify all nonsensical and inhumane measures. In the EU, this is called
"Green Deal".
Nature is the indispensable basis of our existence. We are therefore not only morally obliged to treat it respectfully and sustainably. We want a healthy life in harmony with nature, with stable ecosystems and great biodiversity. We respect and preserve creation. Unlike at present, we want to establish a different economic model for the future that works according to the cradle-to-cradle principle: It produces durable, fully recyclable or biodegradable products. Disposable and throwaway packaging will be converted to an environmentally friendly circular economy. All technologies used in public and private spaces are comprehensively tested and must be harmless to health and the environment.
However, since the so-called "Green Deal" at the latest, almost every policy in the EU, including environmental policy, has been placed under the primacy of climate protection and the reduction of CO2 emissions. This goes hand in hand with far-reaching interventions in the energy industry, companies and private households. Insufficient attention is being paid to real environmental protection and energy consumption is being demonized.
An environmentally friendly energy supply is a public service!
Today's man-made energy is a limited resource and consists of fossil and renewable components. Every form of energy production is also associated with adverse effects on our environment.
• Fossil fuels damage the environment as soon as they are extracted and emit large quantities of gases (CO2, methane, etc.), which are blamed for global warming, as well as pollutants during transportation and combustion.
• The use of nuclear energy, as a risk technology, can be compared with fossil fuels, as fuel extraction (uranium, thorium) and nuclear waste disposal are associated with considerable environmental pollution (including CO2).
• So-called regenerative energy resources are also only available to a limited extent and their excessive exploitation also damages the environment, nature and society and may compete with food production.
? Our approach to the climate narrative
Since the coronavirus crisis at the latest, many people have begun to doubt the objectivity and credibility of science. The climate change narrative is repeated to us like a mantra. Anyone who is skeptical is quickly defamed as a "climate denier". On the one hand, there are those who consider humans, their lifestyles and the emissions of industrialization based on fossil fuels to be responsible, deriving from this a catastrophic scenario of climate change for humanity and calling for correspondingly radical countermeasures, including encroachments on civil liberties. On the other hand, there are those who doubt that the available data can prove that humans are solely responsible for global warming and question the appropriateness and effectiveness of the planned countermeasures.
The dieBasis party is well aware of the phenomenon of "global warming" and that human activity (e.g. deforestation, soil sealing) also contributes to it. However, we do not follow the common narrative of man-made climate change through CO2 emissions. Ultimately, it seems to us that the influence of humans is very limited. On the other hand
The grassroots see a great danger that the CO2 narrative will be used to dismantle democracy and civil liberties and to levy new taxes.
1. dieBasis calls for a balanced scientific reassessment of the development of the global climate, including consultation with scientists who cannot confirm the CO2 thesis.
On the subject of "climate", a distinction must be made between weather phenomena and large-scale and long-term changes to the global climate. The former is countered with small-scale interventions in the weather (e.g. inoculating clouds with silver iodide), the latter with adaptation to climate change or large-scale technological interventions in the atmosphere (geoengineering). The grassroots have three demands:
2. theBasis rejects targeted manipulative interventions in the weather.
3. The grassroots reject geoengineering (e.g. solar dimming) to influence the climate.
4. Preserving forests, wetlands (e.g. moors) and marine ecosystems (e.g. coral reefs) is the best way to help protect our climate.
Livelihoods.
? General requirements in the field of energy and the environment - the target quadrangle of the energy industry: ecological, regional, affordable and reliable supply
Energy supply is part of public services of general interest and should therefore be open to technology and free of ideology. As energy supply can lead to monopolies for technical reasons, operations and profits must be regulated by the state. In the past, a successful energy policy has always focused on a compromise in the so-called target triangle of price, environment and security of supply (see Fig. 1). This means that all alternatives must be evaluated according to many criteria, not just the issue of "CO2=climate". An energy transition that promises climate neutrality but at the same time ignores price, security of supply and geopolitics will fail.
Fig.1: The classic triangle of energy supply objectives. The three aspects of price, environment and security of supply must all be considered equally (left).
Fig.2: Desired expansion of the target triangle to include the "regionality" dimension to form a target quadrangle (right).
TheBasis also suggests adding regionality as a fourth dimension to the target triangle, as on the one hand we want to reduce the influence of large energy companies for reasons of power control
and, on the other hand, believe that an additional regional component makes our society less dependent on geopolitical currents and terrorist attacks (see Nordstream 2). It also strengthens the circular economy and reduces the transportation of goods. This results in a target quadrangle (see Fig. 2).
Nuclear power is a risky technology that pollutes the environment. On the other hand, it could be a necessary complement to renewable energies, at least in a transitional period. The topic is still the subject of controversial debate within the party dieBasis. Some members support the further development of the peaceful use of nuclear power for energy generation in Europe through new, safer and decentralized technologies. Others are in favor of a consistent Europe-wide phase-out of nuclear energy. That is why this program does not contain a position on this. Nuclear power yes or no is definitely an issue that should be decided in a referendum.
Last but not least: the biggest consumer of energy, environmental and climate pollutant is war policy due to the destruction and emissions caused by the military in wars. As a peace party, we are doing a double good in this sense.
The following general requirements are formulated, taking into account the complex interrelationships of a target quadrangle.
5. dieBasis demands environmental protection instead of climate ideology.
6. Environmental protection and so-called "climate protection" must not be enforced against fundamental vital interests (e.g. of farmers). A fair balance of interests is important.
7. Measures to protect the environment and adapt to changing climatic conditions Conditions must be negotiated at regional and municipal level for the mutual benefit of people and nature.
8. The top priority for the energy supply must be a secure, reliable, environmentally friendly and affordable energy supply for citizens and industry.
9. Energy production should generally be based on the principle of cooperation rather than ideological confrontation.
10. dieBasis is striving for energy autonomy in the EU as a long-term goal.
11. is the basis for decentralized energy generation.
12. The energy supply must be committed to the common good.
13. Municipal/state and private energy producers should be treated equally.
14. Energy production and research into alternative energy sources have a major impact on The development of new technologies must be carried out on an engineering-
scientific basis and open to all technologies in accordance with the target quadrangle.
15. dieBasis is against the EU's plan to phase out fossil fuels by 2030.
16. dieBasis rejects the setting of rigid phase-out dates at the expense of technically well thought-out and economically sound solution concepts.
17. dieBasis calls for the promotion of regional energy production and isolated solutions depending on technological possibilities.
18. The production of bioenergy must not be at the expense of land for food production.
19. dieBasis is against the expansion of wind energy at the expense of landscape protection, health, nature and groundwater.
20. dieBasis calls for a consistent peace policy, peaceful coexistence with global disarmament as essential steps towards security of supply,
Conservation of resources and environmental protection. (See also peace and security policy)
21. dieBasis is committed to the repair and recommissioning of the Nord Stream gas supply pipelines. (See also thematic block II. Peace and security policy)
? Regulation of the energy sector - reducing bureaucracy
Until the 1990s, the energy industry was a market characterized by minimal state regulation (the Energy Industry Act (EnWG) had 8 pages), which ensured a cheap and secure supply of electricity and gas. Increasing government intervention (deregulation, EEG, nuclear phase-out, coal phase- out) has turned it into a bureaucratic jungle that is difficult to navigate (today the EnWG has around 150 pages), from which investors are the main beneficiaries.
All that has remained is a sham market with the merit order process, which has also deliberately excluded the cheapest power plants from the race. In recent years, the thicket of rules has led to lobbyists, climate hysterics and EU bureaucrats exerting too much influence on energy policy. The "engineering solutions" of the transition have given customers the highest electricity prices in the world. Instead of a one-sided focus on "CO2 avoidance", we must return to a target triangle or even a target quadrangle (see above).
The generally applied CO2 accounting is counterproductive and places a one-sided burden on European companies. Firstly, the CO2 costs are partly reimbursed via subsidies to export-oriented companies, and secondly, production is relocated to Asia and America, where it generates even more CO2. This is why CO2 certificate trading has no real impact on the climate, even if we are convinced that it is harmful to the climate. We also reject initiatives such as the CBAM Act (Regulation (EU) 2023/956) to create a CO2 border adjustment system for imports from outside the EU. It would mean that from 2026, private individuals would also be affected, e.g. for vacation souvenirs with a value of 150
would have to buy additional CO2 certificates.
22. The rules in the energy sector must become concise and transparent again.
23. dieBasis is calling for the EU climate regulations to be thinned out and revised, with no blanket paternalism, and for obstacles to regional and situation-specific solutions to be removed.
24. The competition rules and regulations that stand in the way of regional energy production must be revised.
25. Instead of energy exchanges, fair alternative mechanisms for energy distribution should be developed.
26. CO2 accounting, CO2 taxes and CO2 certificate trading are immediately
as they are counterproductive, encourage speculation and only burden companies and citizens.
27. dieBasis is calling for the abolition of the carbon border adjustment mechanism (CBAM) with its CO2 certificate obligation for imports, including for private individuals, because it does not provide any
proven benefits, but only more bureaucracy, especially for SMEs.
? Traffic turnaround - less traffic through more regionality
Regionality is a core element in reducing traffic to a tolerable level. With more regional production of products and more direct marketing, transportation can be reduced. Supply chains are also shortened in the industrial sector when the regional circular economy is expanded. In contrast, we take a critical view of the government-imposed reduction in individual mobility (e.g. in the context of so-called 15-minute cities), as this means personal freedom for many people, which must also be preserved for older and disabled people. The EU law of March 2023 effectively bans the internal combustion engine from 2035, without giving climate-neutral fuels (power to gas; power to liquid) a chance, for example. In view of the devastating eco-balance of electric cars, this must be seen as ideological legislation.
28. dieBasis supports measures to regionalize production and shorten supply chains to reduce traffic.
29. dieBasis rejects restrictions on individual mobility such as the concept of so-called "15-minute cities".
30. the basis is for the preservation of individual transportation.
31. Individual mobility must also become sustainable - but without ideology and open to all technologies.
32. Innovation, technological diversity and technological openness in mobility must be promoted.
33. dieBasis calls for the further development and use of combustion technologies and only sensible, environmentally friendly applications of electromobility.
34. dieBasis is in favor of reversing the EU Parliament's decision to phase out combustion engines for new cars from 2035.
35. A change in environmentally harmful mobility behavior should be brought about by intelligent offers instead of bans.
36. dieBasis calls for the nationwide expansion of local and long-distance public transport to relieve the pressure on private transport.
37. dieBasis calls for repair and expansion of the EU-wide rail network to relieve road transportation.
? Energy efficiency - innovative and voluntary
All buildings in the European Union are to be climate-neutral by 2050. In order to achieve this, the Council of Member States wants only climate-neutral residential buildings to be allowed to be built from 2030. Minimum energy efficiency standards are also to be set for existing houses and apartments. The planned reform of the EU Buildings Directive (EPBD) to include stricter requirements for the energy efficiency of properties is not well thought out from an engineering perspective, is unrealistic and is economically and socially unbalanced. As a result, many owners will be faced with costly renovations in the medium term. A building heating bureaucracy is being created and there is a threat of forced refurbishment or even expropriation for those who cannot afford it.
38. TheBasis welcomes continuous technical improvements and does not stand in the way of energy innovations.
39. Nevertheless, the rapid state-driven dissemination of innovations must be carried out with caution.
40. We want to meet a potentially growing demand for electricity/energy by providing more affordable and environmentally friendly energy.
41. dieBasis rejects the planned reform of the EU Buildings Directive (EPBD): No forced renovation of real estate!
42. The grassroots demand that the switch to supposedly climate-friendly
heat generation technologies (e.g. heat pumps) must be engineering-based, well thought out and affordable for citizens.
43. Energy efficiency measures may only be introduced on a voluntary basis through education and incentives, but not through sanctions.
? Protection of water and marine resources in the EU
Our marine ecosystems, with their biodiversity and their contribution to the global climate, are also of essential importance for life on land. Overfishing, pollutants, waste, especially plastic, lost containers and fishing gear, increasing noise from resource extraction and even deep-sea mining are endangering them. Marine animals are disturbed by underwater communication and sound (e.g. sonar). In addition, 1.6 million tons of old munitions in the North Sea and Baltic Sea and around 5,000 tons of chemical munitions in German waters alone pose an acute environmental threat.
Given the transboundary nature of marine ecosystems and maritime activities, resilient international cooperation is needed to protect them and develop their potential. This requires measures for safe, clean and sustainably managed oceans to be implemented globally. International agreements already exist (e.g. the MARPOL Convention 1973/78, the Flora, Fauna, Habitat Directives, the Marine Conservation Framework Directive of 2008). However, these have so far been insufficiently implemented. The use of sustainable aquaculture systems and sustainable fishing (in accordance with the MSC seal) make an important contribution to the protection of marine animals and algae so that the naturally wild populations can recover.
44. dieBasis calls for the consistent implementation of marine protection agreements.
45. dieBasis supports the initiatives to protect maritime ecosystems through an integrated maritime policy of the European Union.
46. dieBasis calls for the consistent implementation of existing agreements to avoid marine litter (including the avoidance of microplastics) and the development of methods for its removal and disposal.
47. dieBasis calls for better regulation of underwater communication and underwater noise (e.g. seismic surveys, underwater explosions, pile driving, ship noise) in order to protect marine animals, especially marine mammals.
48. dieBasis calls for the systematic and consistent elimination of the dangers posed by old munitions in the oceans.
49. As a trilateral World Heritage Site, the Wadden Sea is of global importance and should continue to be protected as such.
50. dieBasis calls for the consistent application of the guidelines of the MSC seal for sustainable fishing.
51. Deep-sea mining must not take place without an international set of rules to protect ecosystems and prior comprehensive research.
VI. Right to analog life - no digital control
We are on the way to becoming transparent!
For us, human dignity always takes precedence over digital feasibility. We therefore call for a digital ethic that focuses on current and future freedom, human dignity and quality of life.
We are in favor of digital technologies, especially if they are beneficial to European democracy. Technological progress should be guided by the principle of serving society as a whole and must not exclude and discriminate against people who cannot or do not want to use digital technology. In particular, technology must not be used to take advantage of, suppress, censor and control people. Personal data is the property of each individual and is therefore valuable and worth protecting.
The healthy development of the human spirit is important to us, which is why we value and support social interaction. The danger of losing oneself in the digital world was particularly evident during the coronavirus lockdown, which led to isolation, depression and a high suicide rate among the population.
Total transparency of citizens, which could be achieved with a "digital vaccination certificate", for example, contradicts the German constitution and our social values. It also creates an imbalance of power in favor of those who have access to the data. dieBasis rejects this in the interests of limiting power. Informational self-determination must also apply in the age of digitalization. Due to its cross- border nature, the issue of digitalization is a European one.
dieBasis is also committed to Europe:
• The fundamental right to privacy as protection from higher-level structures
• The fundamental right to informational self-determination
• The fundamental right to freedom of movement
• Compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation
• Compliance with the European Charter of Fundamental Rights
? the basic requirements for digitization
1. Limit the potential harmful effects of digitalization and introduce ethical rules.
Despite all the positive aspects of digitalization, possible harmful effects must also be taken into account. dieBasis is therefore calling for neutral and independent investigations into 5G technology, for example, as well as research into the development of transmission technology that is guaranteed to be safe for humans.
Robots and artificial intelligence (AI) should serve general prosperity and not lead to the impoverishment of further sections of the population or even be directed against humans. Ethical principles should apply that serve as safety mechanisms to keep increasingly autonomous AI under control. A commission of independent scientists, including a citizens' council, should meet to precisely define ethical rules for AI, robots and drones.
The use of autonomously acting AI, robots and drones for warfare or to kill human life must be excluded and outlawed. We propose extending human rights to this end, similar to the ban on the use of poison gas.
For us, an ethical approach also includes self-determination about the degree of
of our own digitalization: an analogue life without economic and social disadvantages must continue to be possible in principle. The introduction of socially transformative technologies requires grassroots democratic legitimization and control.
2. No digital surveillance
Digital data is valuable and makes many things possible, but we reject unprovoked surveillance, data retention and biometric surveillance. There must be no mass surveillance or creation of movement profiles. Individual surveillance should also only take place under strict state and legal control. The secrecy of correspondence must also apply in the digital sphere.
We reject digital identification or storage anchored in the body, e.g. for access and locking systems, passports or ID cards. Nor should there be any direct or indirect coercion to intervene in the human body in this way.
3. IT sovereignty and net neutrality:
dieBasis calls for sovereignty through self-controlled, secure IT for Europe with its own European data infrastructure to ensure digital self-determination.
? We reject or want to withdraw these EU programs:
4. No digital EU identity - prevent total control.
The EU wants to abolish passports and ID cards. Biometric border controls are to be created with digital identity. Tracking the movements and activities of individuals is a clear violation of the right to privacy and freedom of mobility.
The introduction of a digital identity (ID2020) in conjunction with the EU health passport and the abolition of cash is highly dangerous. The resulting traceability of all transactions will make people transparent to governments, companies and other interest groups.
5. Digital Services Act - censorship becomes mandatory.
With the Digital Services Act (DSA), the EU has created an extremely vague law to replace the German Network Enforcement Act, which leaves individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises at the mercy of almost arbitrary state control and obliges them to take extensive censorship measures. Online providers must examine the societal risks of their services, for example with regard to the spread of harmful content and the impact on elections, human rights or the mental health of users, and take measures to minimize identified risks. We reject censorship by private structures that are not subject to control. Who decides what constitutes a social risk - e.g. the WHO, Facebook, ominous fact- checkers ...? Should politics of opinion be allowed to dictate ethical principles?
Censorship or the prevention of free expression of opinion without legal proceedings, e.g. through upload filters, is also prohibited.
6. No Digital Markets Act in favor of large corporations - strengthen user rights.
With the Digital Markets Act (DMA), the EU has introduced regulation on the "fairness" of markets in the digital sector. So-called "gatekeepers" - the major online platforms - are supposed to treat each other fairly. To ensure this so-called
However, in order to ensure "fairness", users' data protection rights are massively restricted. An exchange of user data between the large multinational online corporations - medium-sized companies and small businesses are of course excluded - is therefore necessary for reasons of "fairness". dieBasis demands the withdrawal of the DMA and a strengthening of user rights vis-à-vis the online platforms.
VII. Finances: Hands off our money - no expropriation and disenfranchisement
The abolition of cash is being driven forward in a targeted manner and in small steps.
The EU Commission has been paving the way for the digital euro as a legal tender since the beginning of 2023. Digital payments can be used to enforce digital identity efficiently. How long will it be before digital money not only supplements cash, but replaces it?
The argument instrumentalized by the "Better Than Cash Alliance" that cash would support tax evasion or money laundering is inappropriate. The attempt to combat crime by abolishing cash should be seen as curing symptoms and not as eliminating the causes of such crime. There is much to suggest that it is about more than fighting crime. In the next phase of the unresolved debt crisis, increased access to private assets could become an issue.
It would have far-reaching consequences if there were no more cash and payments were only possible with electronic currency. Today's banks would be largely superfluous. Income and expenditure would be processed exclusively via an account at the central bank.
The abolition of cash makes us all vulnerable to blackmail
With digital money, all transactions and payment processes become traceable, registered and possibly even compromisable - with the result that we become transparent customers.
This means that nothing stands in the way of complete control and monitoring. The state only needs to deal with the central bank to access the data. With the introduction of a digital central bank currency, the technical prerequisite for totalitarian abuse has been created (e.g. a restriction on payment transactions according to "good" or "bad".
"bad" behavior of citizens, the complete exclusion of financial transactions up to the possibility of completely refusing to shop will be easy to implement with exclusively digital money). We remember that many critical people had their bank accounts terminated as a result of the coronavirus measures.
The dependence of electronic systems on the energy supply is also likely to be a significant risk.
The expropriation and disenfranchisement of people has already begun
The first bonus point systems for citizens are already being piloted, similar to the Chinese "Social Credit System". They are examples of the loss of civil liberties. The Smart City Charter
postulates that "private property is a luxury and there is less need for democratic elections". This is openly promoted in projects such as the "Post-Ownership Society" and the "Post-Voting Society".
The introduction of a digital identity (ID2020) in conjunction with the abolition of cash is highly dangerous. The resulting traceability of all transactions will make people transparent to governments, companies and other interest groups.
Cash secures our freedom and our basic democratic rights.
The demands of dieBasis on the subject of finance are:
1. We demand a legal right to pay in cash!
Cash must also be permanently retained in the EU as a legally recognized means of payment alongside cashless payment transactions. Autonomy over money is a cornerstone of our individual freedom and security. dieBasis consistently advocates the preservation of cash, supports additional regional currencies and advocates the freedom of personal choice for cryptocurrencies. Cash is freedom in action and data protection in action. Abolishing it would be the end of our individual
Freedom rights!
Cash should therefore also be enshrined as a fundamental right in European constitutions. On June 15, 2023, Slovakia became the first country in the world to include the right to pay in cash in its constitution in order to set limits to the digital euro.
2. The creation of money belongs in the hands of a state oriented towards the common good - no special funds and special assets "out of nothing".
We must regain our financial autonomy and end the dominance of financial institutions over the state. At the moment, the banking system creates "money out of nothing" without the money supply being matched by goods and services. This "bank" money ("money out of nothing") is largely created by the banks themselves through lending and has no equivalent value other than "trust" (fiat money). We demand that the creation of money be placed in the hands of a state oriented towards the common good, with the participation of local citizens.
We reject "money without value" for special European funds such as the €770 billion "NextGenerationEU" (Corona aid package/EU reconstruction fund) and the ECB's promotion of government debt, as they lead to even more inflation. It is only a matter of time before this balloon bursts. The loss of purchasing power primarily affects low-income earners and socially disadvantaged fellow citizens.
3. Expropriation and disenfranchisement must be stopped - asset registers, real estate registers and equalization of burdens are the harbingers.
Legally created foundations for an equalization of burdens in Germany and European real estate and asset registers are harbingers of possible expropriations. We therefore reject these laws.
4. The waste of taxpayers' money must be transparently investigated, sanctioned and prevented in future. Politicians must be held liable for this.
5. The EU should not be allowed to levy its own taxes.
The collection of taxes should remain the responsibility of the nation states, which finance the EU through membership fees. The EU is an alliance of sovereign states. Having its own taxes would give it a state-like character. Reducing the tasks of the EU also reduces the costs for the bureaucratic apparatus of the EU Commission.
6. The EU should not be allowed to take out its own loans for investments.
In case of doubt, the large economies in the EU will ultimately have to pay for the loans, as the EU has no revenue of its own and cannot provide any collateral. Investments can be made via the national parliaments and, in the case of regional development programs, from funds that are fed by the member states' contributions.
Imprint:
the base
Basic Democratic Party Germany Zillestrasse 9 10585 Berlin
The EU and Europe Working Group ag-eu- europa@diebasis-partei.de



Animal welfare party = most effective voice
Some people wonder whether a vote for the Animal Welfare Party is effective. If you have ever asked yourself this question, here are a few arguments.
A cross for the party MENSCH UMWELT TIERSCHUTZ - Animal Welfare Party definitely makes sense, because:
There is no percentage hurdle in the European elections and our chances of entering Parliament with two or three female candidates are good.
It shows politicians what is important to you and that they should address your issues.
You will help us to become better known and to campaign more visibly for your goals in the future through more state funding.
You are exercising your most important democratic right and take a stand against "business as usual"!
In times of selfish lobby politics, you are setting an example for empathy and responsibility.
Our team for Europe
Sebastian Everding
(Sustainability entrepreneur, 40, North Rhine-Westphalia)
Sebastian advocates peaceful conflict resolution, a Europe without hunting and animal suffering and more biodiversity.
Aída Spiegeler Castañeda
(Lawyer, 29, Berlin)
Aída brings more movement and proximity to citizens into European politics with heart and mind.
Robert Gabel
(Political scientist, 43, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania)
Robert wants to drive forward the urgently needed agricultural turnaround for animal welfare, health and effective climate measures.
Miriam Broux (works council assistant, 34, Baden-Württemberg) Paula López Vicente (student, 26, Hesse) Barbara Schwarz (translator, 62, Rhineland-Palatinate) Claus Dethlefs (pensioner, 71, Schleswig-Holstein)
Dr. Susanne Wittmann (Doctor, 58, Bavaria)
You can find more information on our website:
www.tierschutzpartei.de/Europawahl
PARTY MAN ENVIRONMENT ANIMAL WELFARE
- Animal Welfare Party -
Schreiersgrüner Street 5
08233 Treuen
Bank details of the Animal Welfare Party: IBAN DE54 6005 0101 0405 3230 90
Executive Board with power of representation: Paula López Vicente, Dr. Marcel Krohn, Robert Gabel
sekretariat@tierschutzpartei. de www.tierschutzpartei.de
H U M A N	ENVIRON
MENT
A N I M A L
P R O T E C T I O N
	
We are committed to a society in which equality and diversity are firmly anchored. Respect and tolerance must be fundamental values, regardless of gender, identity, origin, religion, physical characteristics or economic circumstances. We are fighting for a world without prejudice, in which every person can freely develop their full potential in their career, education and daily interactions. Respect and tolerance for all living beings and future generations should be practiced.
In the Europe we envision, no one will be left on the margins. This requires not only uniform anti-discrimination laws, but also low-threshold, free and public offers for social participation. Everyone has the right to participate in social life and to help shape its conditions. In order to achieve this goal, an appropriate legal framework must be created. We are committed to this!
We are committed to unconditional sea rescue and want to create legal and s a f e ways to escape. Provide less money to the arms industry and place more emphasis on humanity! It is essential to establish a Europe-wide, joint sea rescue service that consistently implements the principle of sea rescue and no longer allows pushbacks. We want to take responsibility and work together to overcome the causes of flight.
Our economic system is designed for permanent growth, but our planet has limited resources. The gap between rich and poor is also widening. We stand for a sustainable, fair economic system that puts an end to the exploitation of people, animals and nature. The strategy of so-called green growth is far from sufficient. What is needed is an economy that sets individual life satisfaction as the benchmark for political decisions instead of constantly creating new consumer needs.
We demand that Europe does not become a global military power, but a global force for peace. The European Union must commit itself to peaceful conflict resolution, must only allow military operations within the framework of UN missions and should play a mediating role worldwide. We refuse to profit from the suffering of other peoples. Therefore, arms exports to areas outside the EU must be banned as a matter of principle and an extremely restrictive European arms export regulation must be implemented.
Note: For reasons of better readability, the simultaneous use of female and male language forms is avoided and the generic feminine is used. Male and other gender identities are explicitly included.
Land use and the agricultural industry are responsible for around 30% of European greenhouse gas emissions: a significant proportion of these emissions come from livestock farming, which releases incredible amounts of climate-damaging methane and CO2 . But that's not all: deforestation, slash-and-burn forest clearance and the draining of moors for pasture and animal feed cultivation as well as the unnecessary transport of animals, feed and fertilizer are pushing the planet to its limits. We can only overcome the climate crisis and create a greener Europe if we initiate a genuine agricultural turnaround and put an immediate end to agro-industrial livestock farming. We can only achieve the climate targets if we finally put an end to the mishandling of animals and initiate a genuine agricultural turnaround immediately!
Overfilled landfills, waste exports, waters and fields full of microplastics, suffering animals: a radical change is needed! 30 million tons of annual plastic waste in Europe is 30 million too much! The European Packaging Regulation must be implemented quickly, but this is only a first step. Far less waste, significantly higher reusable quotas and more recycling are essential.
Of the estimated 10-100 million animal and plant species worldwide, one million are threatened with extinction. This decline in species has dramatic and sometimes unforeseeable consequences for us all - including us humans. In addition to monocultures, hunting and fishing, climate change and environmental pollution, the main cause is the decline in natural habitats. We are therefore calling for land consumption to be monitored and restricted, and for areas to be unsealed and renaturalized. The EU biodiversity strategy, which aims to place 30% of the Union's territory under nature conservation, and even 10% under strict protection, must be implemented consistently. Nature regulates itself and does not need human intervention.
Our industries are dependent on fossil fuels. Coal, gas, oil and even nuclear power mostly come from undemocratic countries and are also destroying the basis of life on our planet. Nuclear power is also extremely expensive overall, while renewable energy sources are the cheapest. They make us independent of imports and are also inexhaustible! We are committed to the expansion of generation, grid and storage capacities and a successful energy transition. Let's make European energy production fit for the future!
The use of pesticides has a significant negative impact on the environment and biodiversity. It is undisputed that many of the 300 or so pesticides used are also toxic to humans. We are vehemently committed to a permanent b a n on synthetic chemical pesticides and are calling for the overdue development of biological alternatives. We are also fighting against the export of pesticides banned in the EU. We must no longer carelessly put everyone's health at risk.
Every day (!), two million so-called "farm" animals are killed in Germany alone. Their short, agonizing lives in confined spaces are characterized by pain, stress, amputation of body parts and slaughter at a young age, often without anaesthesia! This unspeakable suffering must come to an end! We call for an immediate end to the animal industry financed by taxpayers' money!
Animals are directly affected by many European Union decisions. Nevertheless, their interests all too often slip under the radar of decision-makers. For the first time, a Commissioner for Animal Rights is to be a powerful voice for the billions of animals that have so far been without rights. With expertise and empathy, animal rights must finally be incorporated into political decisions!
The transportation of animals by ship and truck under torturous conditions, which are generally tolerated by the responsible veterinary authorities, is a particularly ghastly outgrowth of the meat industry. As an immediate measure, transports to third countries must be banned and the maximum transportation time set at a total of eight hours. Our goal, however, is a strict ban on transportation, including within Europe.
Some people shoot wild animals for pleasure, as a profession or as a sport. This practice is justified by the need to regulate animal populations and protect forests from game browsing. From an ecological point of view, this is not plausible and must therefore no longer be tolerated. Unfortunately, some Member States still have exemptions for the import of hunting trophies from third countries. We are calling for a more consistent EU species protection regulation with import bans and a ban on advertising hunting trips.
Millions of animals are "consumed" every year in the EU for animal testing, even though only modern, animal-free tests can deliver relevant results. We call for an immediate end to the subsidization of all animal testing and the reform of the European chemicals regulation REACH so that only animal-free testing methods are used throughout the EU.
Animals in "fur" farms live in tiny cages, suffer from infected wounds and are brutally killed. Sometimes their fur is pulled off while they are still alive. We want to ban both fur farming and the s a l e o f fur throughout Europe.
