
Election program for the 2024 European elections
Resolution
of the European Party Congress of the Family Party of Germany Billerbeck, April 01, 2023
EU election program of the Family Party of Germany for the 2024 elections to the XX European Parliament
Table of contents
I. Preamble	4
II. Social / family policy	6
1. European child benefit	7
2. Educational salary	8
3. European pension	9
4. Right to vote from birth	10
5. Facilitating the acceptance of an apprenticeship	10
6. Free one-year rail ticket to the age of 18	10
III. Economy and finance	11
1. Financial transaction tax	12
2. Capital gains tax of 25 - 35% applicable throughout Europe	13
3. Introduction of European minimum tax rates	13
1
4. Withdrawal of banking license	14
5. Euro bonds	14
6. Free trade agreement	15
7. Cash	16
IV. Agriculture	16
1. Export of agricultural products	16
2. No discrimination against part-time farmers	17
3. Fundamental right to water	17
4. Use of pesticides such as glyphosate	18
5. Animal welfare	18
V. Energy, environment and climate	19
1. Energy transition	19
2. Building a European electricity grid	20
3. Standard market energy prices and no European EEG	20
4. Strengthening the European Environment Agency (EEA)	21
5. Co2 certificates	21
VI. Infrastructure	22
1. Increased promotion of large-scale projects	22
2. Intra-European mobility	22
VII. Defense / Home Affairs	23
1. Expansion of information rights of intra-European authorities.	24
2
2. Dealing with refugees	24
3. Standardized military objects	25
4. Establishment of a European army	25
VIII. Strengthening parliamentary rights	26
I. Preamble
For a family-friendly and strong Europe!
The upcoming elections to the XX European Parliament will determine the direction of the Europe of (the) future.
In the upcoming election, you will decide on the priorities for the next legislative period and beyond.
The European Union needs strong impulses for unity and a stronger unity of the member states.
The identification of European citizens with Europe is crucial for the sustainable continued existence of the European Union.
Originating from the EEC (European Economic Community), the European Union has evolved from an economic alliance into an agricultural alliance. As a result, the member states are now widely branched and many are strongly linked to each other through the euro.
However, the existing tasks within and outside the European Union need to be restructured and supplemented.
We in the German Family Party are calling for a new focus and a reorientation of the European Union.
The European Union must be made more family-friendly. Social policy priorities are now the key to making Europe a strong and reliable continent for European citizens once again.
A European child benefit, which is to exist in addition to national child benefits, is a cornerstone of a new social policy orientation.
A strong society can only be built on strong families.
that can hold its own in global competition. Germany's Family Party is therefore calling for a basic childcare salary, a cost-covering child benefit and the right to vote from birth on behalf of the parents.
At the moment, family policy is not a significant topic in the European Parliament. This absolutely must be changed, and it should be assigned to the working group on labor and social affairs. After all, raising and caring for children by parents is work and should be remunerated accordingly. This step has already been taken in the case of home care. It must be extended to child rearing and care. This would eliminate the injustice that pensions are borne by society as a whole, while the costs of children are mainly borne by the parents. This has led to such a low birth rate that there is a shortage of skilled workers across Europe and the social systems will soon no longer be able to be financed. Whether the gap can be closed by immigration is controversial. The Family Party is in favor of more births in Europe and limited immigration to prevent the formation of parallel societies that bring a completely different culture to Europe.
Europe is a unique global project and is based on shared values and peace. We are also calling for a ceasefire and diplomatic negotiations to solve the problem in Ukraine. We want to significantly strengthen the (job) value of families in the European Union. So strengthen us with your vote on 09.06.2024!
Vote for the Family Party of Germany for a Europe of possibilities and opportunities and so that our future generations can grow up in peace and freedom!
II. Social / family policy
The European Union was once founded to maintain peace and allow the economy to flourish, which has reliably happened within the European Union. Prosperity has grown considerably since the EEC was founded.
To date, however, only the common agricultural policy is the only complete Community funding policy of the European Union, which justifies the relatively high share of the agricultural sector (including support for rural development) in the EU budget.
We in the German Family Party are therefore calling for a reorientation of the European Union in order to significantly increase public acceptance of the European Union. After a common currency and a common agricultural policy, the euro states must take on the overall social task of family and social policy.
The birth of a child is associated with a serious economic disadvantage for all parents. Children are still the greatest risk of poverty in the 21st century. In Germany alone, every 5th child lives in poverty with their parents.
As a result, the birth rate in Germany in 2022 was just 1.46 children per woman, putting Germany at the bottom end of the European league.
It is obvious that the framework conditions for (starting) a family must be improved, if only to prevent families with children from having to live and grow up in poverty. The Family Party sees this as its most urgent task, both in Germany and throughout Europe, and is therefore calling for the creation of a family fund into which everyone pays 4% of their gross income in order to provide a child benefit that covers the costs, a child-raising salary and an appropriate pension for parents regardless of their income.
federal, state and municipal budgets.
By implementing the proposed measures, Germany's Family Party hopes that more children will be born again; that the social systems will remain affordable and sustainable; that parents will have more time for their children; that no child will have to grow up in poverty; that abortions will no longer be carried out for social reasons; that maintenance payments will be abolished; that families, especially single parents, will no longer be exposed to the risk of poverty; women can decide to have a child at a younger age because they are financially secure; school, training, studies or employment can be continued even after parental leave; child-rearing and employment can be better reconciled and the economic disadvantage of parents during child-rearing and in retirement age is eliminated.
A social policy orientation for the benefit of European citizens is long overdue!
1. European child benefit
The creation of a European child benefit alongside national child benefits should directly support and promote families throughout Europe. A uniform European amount of €50 per child would reduce the social gap within the European Union and primarily help families.
The cost of living for families has risen enormously in recent years due to pandemic-related damage, disrupted supply chains and escalating energy costs within the European Union.
A European child benefit (to be applied for) would show people within the European Union that Europe is more than just a loose association of states held together by (agricultural) economic interests.
The introduction would also curb intra-European social flight.
The total costs, including the necessary administrative costs, would amount to around €50 billion. This is not to be financed through a reallocation in the EU budget, but through the introduction of a financial transaction tax and the creation of a family fund.
The top priority for the German Family Party is to realize a child benefit that covers the costs! This provides for families to receive €319 for a child (in Germany) up to the age of 6, €414 up to the age of 14 and €475 up to the age of 18 (European + national child benefit).
The national child benefit currently paid is far too low. In 2023 it amounted to 250
€. Parents currently have to pay the difference from their taxed income. A necessary adjustment must be made accordingly.
In the last legislative period, we made a significant push during the German and Portuguese presidencies and reached a consensus that splitting the amount of €50 would be acceptable to a majority. 25 should be paid directly to the families and 25
€ will be transferred to the community to support local families. We aim to ensure that every child in the European Union is guaranteed a hot lunch!
2. Educational salary
The Family Party of Germany advocates a (social insurance-based) child- raising salary that is paid to all parents. Parental work at home must be treated equally to professional work! This will give them real freedom of choice as to whether they look after their child themselves, especially in the first three years, or place it in external childcare, which they pay for out of the childcare salary. Toddlers need to be attached to a person so that they are strengthened internally. From the age of 3, we recommend
Attendance at a free kindergarten.
The amount of the childcare salary at a minimum wage of €12.41 is to be set at €2,174 gross (€1,550 net) for a child up to the age of 3, €1,118 gross (€951 net) up to the age of 6 and €559 gross (€547 net) up to the age of 12.
An upper limit is set for several children. Local family advisors should contact the families regularly to ensure that the children are properly cared for.
3. European pension
The European Union, through the Commission and the Parliament, should create the framework for the ECB to manage a pension fund that invests in (European) bonds and commercial enterprises in order to create a funded financing pillar for pensions for life. Every EU citizen should thus be given the opportunity to make secure provision for old age on the capital market.
Appropriate support for pension provision should be considered, especially the inclusion of children, in order to do immediate justice to parents' child-rearing efforts. In addition to the child-raising salary for the work required to raise a child, the equalization of family burdens includes a child benefit that covers the minimum costs incurred by a child and also a pension, the calculation of which must take into account the actual child-raising periods. For both parents!
The childcare salary already entitles the parents to a pension. As parents, the current pensioners have raised their children at a considerable financial cost. For this, 3 years are currently deducted from their pension. According to the Herzog Commission, it should be 6 years
be. The Family Party of Germany advocates a corresponding increase at national level, which must amount to more than €100 per child per month!
The European pension fund is intended to place the pension provision of EU citizens on a further, secure pillar, as many national pension models of the member states are currently under existential threat due to demographic change!
4. Right to vote from birth
Parents with children make up around 50 percent of the population, but only 30 percent of those eligible to vote. All are subject to taxes and duties. For example, parents always pay the full excise duty for their children, but the children have no say whatsoever in the democratic election - which also decides their future.
We therefore welcome a gradual lowering of the voting age for all elections in our democracy. In the upcoming European elections, 16-year-olds will be eligible to vote for the first time. We believe that every EU citizen in a democracy should have the right to participate in an election at the latest from the point at which they register to vote on their own. This can also be the case before the age of 16.
Rigid exclusion from an election is not necessary in a modern democracy in the 21st century.
5. Facilitating the acceptance of an apprenticeship
Within the European Union, an opportunity must be created to make it easier for young Europeans and adolescents to accept training in another member state and, if necessary, to promote this. The background to this is the high level of youth unemployment in many European (mostly southern) countries. If Europe has a future
wants to invest in young people today. The young people of today are the voters and citizens of the coming decades. An appropriate network must be established to avoid losing this generation.
6. Free one-year rail ticket
The idea of an Interrail ticket has already been discussed within the European Union and implemented with a small contingent. We believe that we should make it possible for all taxpaying citizens to travel through Europe for a year once in their lifetime.
We reject rigid age limits here for reasons of age discrimination.
7. Strengthening children's rights
Children do not have a vote, but they are the future of our society. Every investment in our children is paid back to society as a sustainability dividend. Tomorrow's taxpayers will finance and consolidate the social security systems of the future, provided they are properly supported.
Therefore, as a first step, we are fighting for a free meal for every child in Europe and a cost-neutral school education that includes school materials and transportation.
The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child must be a firm guideline for European policy. Parental rights must be safeguarded and the basic principle of state guardianship must be upheld.
8. European housing offensive
Housing shortages are a central issue for many people in their everyday lives and are the result of inadequate policies in the respective member states. Whether artificial shortages due to vacation offers and the elimination of housing on the market, or simply poor planning, excessive
building standards, as well as inaction on obvious speculative transactions. The Union will have to act to compensate for the political deficit of many national governments in order to create and maintain an important livelihood for people. In particular, state housing construction is needed!
III. Economy and finance
The economic interdependence and financial solidarity of the European member states are at the heart of the European Union.
If the continent of Europe is doing well economically and financially, the prospects for the Federal Republic of Germany as a member state are also positive. Intra-European trade has become a very important pillar for Germany as an export nation. Without European domestic demand, which is also due to the common currency, the euro, the development of economic growth in the Federal Republic of Germany would be different.
Nonetheless, after the financial and economic crisis, measures to prevent the opposite trend must be implemented, especially in good economic years.
In the election manifesto for the 2019 European elections, we had already called for the following: "For some time now, the ECB has primarily been supporting the southern European member states with its low interest rate policy, while at the same time driving stock markets and property prices to unimagined heights. The drop height for the next economic crisis is increasingly reaching dangerous highs."
In the meantime, the economic crisis is over. Normal citizens no longer have any real chance of realizing their dream of owning their own four walls due to the forced increase in interest rates caused by inflation. Immigration is increasing the pressure on available living space. The transformation process of the economy will produce many winners, but also losers.
1. Financial transaction tax
Since 2011, attempts have been made to implement a financial transaction tax in the European Union. The last attempt by France and Germany in 2019 was inadequate in its design. Only taxing shares is absurd.
It's all about derivatives, bond and high-frequency trading! A recent study by the Kiel Institute for the World Economy comes to the conclusion that the introduction of such a tax can be supported from an economic point of view.
We are therefore advocating the introduction of a full transaction tax in order to ensure that the financial industry contributes appropriately to the tasks facing society as a whole.
The financial transaction tax must be introduced within the European Union. It should only amount to 0.2% for every purchase and sale of a financial product on all intra-European stock exchanges (including direct trading within banks - linked to the banking license!). Half of the revenue is to go to the member states and half to a European social fund, from which, among other things, the European child benefit is to be paid.
The level of 0.2% is so low that there is no reason to fear any significant impact on the returns of normal investors. The only significant impact will be in high-frequency trading and possibly in the emerging market of robo-advisors, which can also be seen as partly responsible for the dramatic developments of the financial crisis.
There is also no reason to fear a widespread migration to circumvent the financial transaction tax, as a European banking license is required to trade in financial products. Great Britain has
have already experienced what this means. Following the hard Brexit, the financial industry has largely moved out of London.
2. Capital gains tax of 25 - 35% applicable throughout Europe
An EU directive should introduce a uniform capital gains tax throughout the European Union in order to prevent tax evasion. This should not exceed 35%, but should not fall below 25% either. The revenues remain with the member states to be levied.
At the same time, the tax-free allowances for interest income must be increased in order to make it easier for the middle class to accumulate assets. The current tax-free allowance in Germany should be increased from €1000 to
€2500 (€5000 for married couples). Furthermore, an additional tax-free allowance of €1000 per child should be granted, with the maximum tax-free allowance being set at €10,000 in total.
3. Introduction of European minimum tax rates
The Family Party of Germany advocates the introduction of European minimum tax rates in order to curb the galloping global tax competition, at least within the EU (and its overseas territories!), but still allow a healthy level of tax competition. Due to their (infrastructure) structure, small countries in particular have the opportunity to demand very low tax rates, partly due to low government costs. Larger countries, on the other hand, do not have this option. In order to protect them, a minimum corporate tax rate of 15% must be introduced for companies within the European Union. In addition, free tax competition can take place below the member states.
Secret agreements between companies and EU member states (Ireland/Apple; Amazon/Luxembourg) are to be declared illegal and give European tax courts the opportunity to additionally penalize the allegedly saved amount with three times the value.
In addition, for internationally operating groups, the taxable amount must be set in relation to the turnover in the respective member state. Accordingly, if a company generates 70% of its turnover in France and 30% in Germany, the corresponding taxes must be paid in the respective member state.
Large companies cannot use the existing infrastructure (level of education, transport, etc.) on the one hand, but avoid the necessary financing requirements through tax avoidance by transferring their profits to tax havens.
A (minimum) total tax burden in the company (trade tax
+ corporation tax) of 15% (currently around 30% for corporations in Germany) is considered necessary by the Family Party of Germany in order to prevent intra-European tax avoidance.
Companies in need of government support are not allowed to pay bonuses to management or dividends for 2 years.
4. Withdrawal of the banking license
Any bank found to have assisted investors in tax evasion will face a fine of three times the amount it has misappropriated on behalf of taxpayers. In a next step (in case of repetition), the European banking license will be withdrawn as a last resort and trading in European financial products will be prohibited.
5. Euro bonds / Manacle bonds
We are opposed to the introduction of Eurobonds, which only serve the purpose of enabling states in financial difficulties to obtain favorable conditions for state financing, since in addition to the state to be held liable (presumably this will be done by a European institution), all states involved will be jointly liable through the Eurobonds.
liable.
The Federal Republic of Germany would thus be a debtor for the debts of other states without having any influence on the use of the money!
This would be unacceptable and would mean that the pressure to reform, which arises from high interest rates on government bonds, would be circumvented and the structural problems to be overcome would not be resolved but postponed from election to election as usual.
In our opinion, euro bonds would make sense if they were managed by a European finance minister and the funds were used specifically to build up the European economy, which would benefit all member states.
Large infrastructure projects such as power lines and transportation routes would be very suitable application examples.
We have brought manacle bonds into play as an alternative. Joint bonds may only be issued if they are a joint European issue. In this way, we could give an enormous boost to the energy transition and create a European high-speed network to reduce internal flights as far as possible. European investment in a common European future.
6. Free trade agreement
The Family Party of Germany recognizes the necessity of free trade agreements. Legal transactions require common regulations and agreements. Uniform standards simplify legal transactions immensely and have positive economic effects, such as the elimination of customs regulations.
When concluding free trade agreements, the EU must act on an equal footing. Free trade agreements that benefit the EU to a particularly one-sided extent, such as the free trade agreement with Mauritania, must be concluded on an equal footing.
be renegotiated on a fair basis.
The exploitation of economically weak market participants must be stopped in the interests of the EU. A lack of prospects is what drives people to flee.
Furthermore, free trade agreements must not only be fair, but also transparent and give the people of Europe the greatest possible say.
7. Cash
The Family Party of Germany is openly committed to the preservation of cash. Overly restricting or even abolishing cash is not expedient.
Although the cost of cash in Germany alone is in the tens of billions, freedom of choice is the essence of any democracy and advanced society.
Germany's Family Party is open to a maximum limit on cash transactions that does not affect the average consumer in order to make illegal transactions more difficult.
8. Digital Euro
We are open to new technologies. The current endeavor to introduce an account with the ECB for every citizen up to a maximum of x000 € is an important and correct step in order to have a basis in the digital age. We need European solutions to make us less dependent on foreign banking systems.
We believe that one of the main advantages of implementing the digital euro is that it will finally be possible to make direct payments to citizens in an unbureaucratic manner. Especially in times of crisis, we need powerful instruments that are highly efficient when needed.
Reminder. The German Finance Minister Lindner manages after more than
year to link an IBAN with the social security number in order to help people and families financially as quickly as possible in unforeseeable times of crisis.
A digital euro could also be used to implement manacle bonds to promote investment in the member states.
IV. Agriculture
Agriculture is currently the only central issue that the European Union is pursuing with its own economic policy. This is also reflected in the EU agricultural budget, which is the only one in the EU budget.
1. Export of agricultural products
The European Union must live up to its global responsibility.
The export of subsidized agricultural products, which threaten the existence of domestic markets such as in Africa, should be more strictly regulated. The destruction of foreign agricultural markets in economically weak regions cannot be in the interests of the European member states, given the influx of people who (have to) leave their homeland due to a lack of prospects.
All economic development had its origins in agriculture. Only then did industry emerge and finally the service sector.
The threat posed by European agricultural products to many foreign farms, particularly in developing countries, is becoming increasingly dramatic. In its own interest, the European Union must rethink its agricultural export policy.
2. No discrimination against part-time farmers
The European Union is currently pursuing a policy of "get big or get out" and subsidizing large agricultural businesses first and foremost.
In order to prevent American conditions in the agricultural sector and
In order to preserve the diversity of European agriculture, the European Union must abandon its one-sided support policy and also take part-time farmers into account when providing support.
3. Fundamental right to water
Water is an essential resource for humanity. Intensive agriculture is increasingly threatening the world's water supplies.
Groundwater is also increasingly polluted by agriculture, such as through the use of pesticides and tons of liquid manure. Nitrate levels are constantly reaching new highs.
A strengthened environmental protection authority must enforce the fundamental right to clean water that is to be created and safeguard it through controls with the support of national authorities.
In addition, the European Union must prohibit water as a liberal competitive product in order to ensure a steady supply of water for all EU citizens.
Privatization of water of any kind must be strictly controlled. Water cooperatives represent an economically sensible approach. Corporations, on the other hand, which are obliged to act exclusively for profit for shareholders, should be excluded from the water business.
4. Use of pesticides such as glyphosate
The use of pesticides such as glyphosate must be applied very restrictively and strong pesticides that demonstrably disturb the environment to such an extent that lasting damage to the environment is to be feared must be banned immediately.
Glyphosate destroys the insect world to such an extent that the food chain is fundamentally threatened in its existence and considerable damage is caused.
effects on other animal species.
The European Union must promote less intensive agriculture and more sustainable agriculture. A corresponding redistribution should be sought.
We must not lose sight of the individual farmer. Affordable and safe food production is essential for every civil society. Accordingly, we must act with prudence and foresight and maintain adaptable transitional regulations. Working together to improve the world instead of imposing one-sided enforcement.
5. Animal welfare
The European Union must make a clear commitment to animal welfare.
Animal experiments are to be banned in principle and can only be approved for a limited period if there is a proven compelling need.
Intensive farming and the serious monocultization of agriculture, for example through intensive livestock farming and the operation of biogas plants, must not be further exacerbated by subsidy programmes and (mis)use of natural resources.
) incentives are strengthened.
Factory farming must be fundamentally curbed. In the interests of animal welfare, uniform, improved conditions are needed across Europe, also to prevent competitive advantages for individual member states with less animal welfare.
In addition, a clear labeling requirement for meat products must be implemented within the European Union in order to provide all consumers with sufficient information so that they can orient their consumption behavior towards animal welfare.
V. Energy, environment and climate
The European Union must assume much more joint responsibility when it comes to combating climate change and protecting the environment. The Family Party of Germany considers a common energy policy to be essential, as this is the key to major structural problems. Both the nuclear phase-out and the coal phase-out are absolutely necessary in order to leave future generations an environment worth living in and to curb global climate damage.
1. Energy transition
The energy transition must be thought of in European terms. The wind-rich north must cooperate more closely with the sun-rich south with existing hydropower plants in the Alps and Scandinavian countries in order to expand the use of renewable energies across Europe.
Development of a European electricity grid to enable a Europe-wide energy transition (expansion and promotion of solar and photovoltaic energy in the southern states of Europe, use of hydropower from the Scandinavian countries).
The use of manacle bonds for financing is a suitable instrument for the expansion of a European energy transition. A green Europe that can significantly reduce emissions and immissions benefits all Europeans equally and does not create false incentives.
Energy and solar parks are also a job engine in the relevant member states and create predominantly well-paid jobs that are subject to social insurance contributions.
2. Development of a European electricity grid
A European electricity grid should merely connect the cardinal points with each other via electricity highways in order to achieve a European energy transition.
efficiently from the outset. Existing grids are to be expanded in consultation with the respective member states where suitable. This should enable synergies between wind and solar energy to be exploited. In addition, hydropower and pumped storage plants (Alps and Scandinavia) should be integrated.
Mistakes such as those made in the German energy transition must not be repeated. The fact that billions of euros are spent each year in Germany to compensate operators of wind farms and solar plants due to feed-in stoppages caused by external disconnection due to voltage peaks is a phenomenon of poor coordination and implementation.
3. Standard market energy prices and no European EEG
Closer cooperation and efficiency, as well as the possibility of financing, create a one-sided burden on the consumer. Instead of promoting conventional power plants, any subsidies must be redirected in favor of future energies.
If a uniform European implementation should fail (due to the adherence to national interests), an implementation with interested member states should be sought, even if this should result in a long-term disadvantage for national electricity markets that have withdrawn from the common electricity market.
The former idea of a community for coal and steel must be transformed into a community for clean energy.
4. Strengthening the European Environment Agency (EEA)
The European Environment Agency (EEA) needs to be restructured. Its current remit is merely to present relevant information and data in the field of the environment.
The EEA must be given powers along the lines of the US
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). This requires European environmental protection laws to be enacted, which are monitored and, if necessary, penalized by the EEA.
The need for a strong European environmental authority has been revealed by the scandalous events surrounding the diesel scandal. National authorities have succumbed to lobbying and are massively limited in their ability to act.
Without the EPA, the diesel scandal would probably never have been uncovered.
We believe that future generations in particular have a right to an intact environment.
5. Co2 certificates
Emissions trading is an instrument of European environmental policy to reduce pollutant emissions at the lowest possible economic cost. In order for climate change mitigation to succeed at all, emissions trading must be fundamentally reformed so that it can achieve its intended effect efficiently in the near future. The proportion of tradable certificates must be reduced by more than 4% annually so that emissions trading becomes an effective cornerstone of European environmental policy.
VI. Infrastructure
Europe needs a strong infrastructure, which forms the basis of social and economic life. The long overdue expansion at all levels must also be understood and used as a job engine for Europe.
1. Increased promotion of large-scale projects
European joint projects must be considered, which can create a connecting element to the population.
A European energy transition can become the European Union's first major central project to create the first "green" continent.
Irrespective of its potential political and economic impact, a European energy transition would send a clear signal against climate change and global environmental destruction.
2. Intra-European mobility
Intra-European transport routes need to be closer and better interconnected. There is a lot of untapped potential in the area of rail transport.
Especially in view of the increase in travelers and passengers, a European high-speed train connecting major European cities as quickly as possible is essential to become competitive with air travel.
The increase in air traffic is a serious threat to our global climate.
Green electricity makes it possible to convert rail transportation in an easy and less complicated way by using electric overhead lines.
The sluggish development of electromobility in the automotive industry shows how difficult it is to switch from conventional drives to more "sustainable" drives. Irrespective of the theoretical feasibility of electromobility in the automotive industry, it is highly unlikely that sufficient raw materials (rare earths, cobalt, graphite, etc.) will be available to convert all commercial aircraft once the revolution is complete in the next decade. Battery production based on current scientific knowledge is not possible indefinitely.
Europe's cities are increasingly suffocating from traffic congestion.
Germany's Family Party is therefore calling for a comprehensive, pan- European concept to relieve congestion in our city centers.
VII. Defense / Interior
The world has changed dramatically in the 21st century. Defense armies are working more and more closely together in a network in order to accomplish common tasks. In addition, police authorities must also work more closely together. European networking with corresponding data exchange is essential for the security of citizens.
1. Expansion of information rights of intra-European authorities
The authorities of the member states must work together more closely, especially in the fight against terrorism and crime, and have access to joint databases. A European counter-terrorism group distributed across individual member states is essential.
2. Dealing with refugees
It is a shame that refugees still have to be discussed in this election because no sustainable solutions have yet been found.
The Family Party of Germany advocates compliance with Dublin III, but calls for a binding European distribution quota to relieve the burden on border states.
In order to ensure uniform procedures, European legal frameworks must be created to decide uniformly who is to be declared in need of protection and under what conditions someone can live within the European Union (immigration law).
In addition, assistance should be defined to support national states with accommodation and integration.
The Family Party of Germany is also in favor of actively combating the causes of flight. As stated on agricultural and economic issues
If we want to build up the economies of other countries, we must actively build them up and not hinder or even destroy them with cheap exports.
A lack of prospects is the driving force behind many refugees and must be eliminated by creating economically sustainable structures.
Refugees from crisis regions need our European protection, and Europe must be a good host and help and support people as best it can. They should learn as much as they can from our culture and take it with them. Take them with them, as it must be made clear from the outset that they are guests and that they must return to their country as soon as it is humanly possible to do so in order to rebuild it.
Otherwise, many areas around the world will be destabilized and remain perpetual trouble spots. Europe and its refugee policy must be aligned with our fundamental Christian values of charity and tolerance.
There is no place in Europe for dull right-wing slogans and racism.
However, the European Parliament also has a duty to work towards a uniform global refugee policy under the auspices of the UN.
3. Standardized military objects
Military objects such as combat aircraft and tanks must be standardized and produced by European arms companies. They should be used exclusively for the defense of Europe.
This should not only significantly reduce costs, but also make it possible to enforce a restrictive stance on arms exports.
Arms exports to crisis regions must be banned as a matter of principle. The European Parliament must have the power of control and be authorized to issue instructions.
4. Establishment of a European army
A European army is essential in the 21st century in order to be able to carry out corresponding tasks cost-effectively. The provision of larger
The establishment of national armies is not only cost-intensive, but also not uncomplicated when it comes to implementing any joint missions, for example within NATO.
A European army would provide a partner that is well equipped to take on larger military tasks on its own.
Furthermore, a European army would more than illustrate the European guiding principle of peace.
However, the right to maintain national armies should not be affected. The tasks of national armies are currently too different in the European member states to simply replace them with a European army. Moreover, the feeling of national incapacitation should not arise. A European army should use and release synergies, especially in economic terms.
VIII. Strengthen parliamentary rights
The rights of the European Parliament, which is the only institution that can be elected by European citizens, must be considerably strengthened. It is unreasonable for a parliament to be allowed to call itself a "parliament", even though the most important decisions are implemented by the European Commission.
A model such as that practiced in Germany with the Bundestag and Bundesrat is at least desirable. A differentiation between consent and objection laws should do sufficient justice to all interests.
But a main right of proposal as a decisive element is simply unworthy of a parliament.
Vote for the Family Party of Germany for a Europe of possibilities and opportunities and so that our future generations can grow up in peace and freedom



DECISION
of the European Party Conference of the FDP, Berlin, January 28, 2024
The FDP's program for the 2024 European elections
Europe. Simple. Make it.
Let's unleash Europe's energy for more freedom and more prosperity.
The corona pandemic, the Russian war of aggression against Ukraine and the brutal terrorist attack by Hamas on Israel in October 2023 are turning points for the whole of Europe. The European Union is facing a crucial test. The numerous crises have revealed that the completion of the European peace and prosperity project is far from over. On the contrary: war is once again raging on our continent. The European Union is not speaking with one voice when it comes to key foreign and security policy challenges such as supporting Ukraine and Israel. Democracy and the rule of law are under increasing pressure across Europe. Radical parties are widely represented in national parliaments and are gaining ground in some cases. Social cohesion is under threat from Islamism, anti-Semitism, right- wing and left-wing extremism and an increasingly polarized climate of opinion. Citizens in the EU are burdened by temporarily high inflation, while public budgets are affected by higher interest rates and growing expenditure. SMEs and industry are struggling with disrupted supply chains, rising commodity prices and a persistent shortage of skilled workers, partly due to demographic factors. The energy supply in the European Union resembles a patchwork quilt and is therefore neither crisis- proof nor efficient. Europe is lagging behind the international competition when it comes to cutting- edge technologies that are required for rapid crisis management and a sovereign and sustainable EU. In addition to these national and European challenges, there are also global challenges: combating irregular migration and smuggling gangs, the fight against global warming, systemic competition with autocracies and dictatorships and the defense against cyber attacks.
All of these challenges cannot be overcome at a national level alone. We are convinced that Europe has the energy to overcome the crises and challenges of our time and to develop new opportunities from them. Europe has the energy to accelerate the development of the great potential of its citizens. Europe has the energy to become a global center for groundbreaking innovations and cutting-edge technologies. And Europe has the energy to become a strong and effective player in international relations, standing up with one voice for democracy and human rights worldwide - and fighting for them when necessary.
In recent years, however, the EU has not been able to release this energy. Instead, it has shackled itself: with unchecked growth in bureaucracy and the regulation of even the smallest details and private areas of life. With overly complex and non-transparent decision-making processes that people cannot understand. With subsidization mechanisms that distribute too much money ineffectively. With too much pleasure in prohibitions and too little trust in personal responsibility and inventiveness.
Our mission is to change this. We want to unleash Europe's energy for more freedom and more prosperity. To achieve this, we want to take three fundamental steps.
Firstly: Europe must become simpler. For us, this also includes strengthening the principle of subsidiarity. People should not associate the EU with over-regulation or bans, but with simple, fast and comprehensible solutions to the problems of our time. Transparent and swift decisions, digital participation opportunities and service offerings as well as a bold reduction in regulation and bureaucracy create trust, make people want to participate and make it clear that the European Union is there for its citizens - and not the other way around. If we make it easier to invent, research, create and use educational opportunities across Europe without borders, Europe can regain its leading role in global technological progress by the end of this decade.
Secondly, Europe must become stronger. Citizens must be convinced: Europe's borders are secure, irregular migration is strictly prevented, people who are required to leave the country are quickly returned, the rule of law is consistently enforced throughout Europe and a powerful European army is ready for action in the event of a military emergency to protect people, democracy and Europe's interests.
Thirdly, Europe must become more of a market economy. In systemic competition with other regions of the world, our economic strength is the decisive factor. By sharpening the principles of the social market economy, through more free trade with the free world, by dismantling subsidy and distribution mechanisms and by completing the digital and energy single market, we are creating a strong and crisis-proof economic area as well as opportunities for growth and prosperity for all Europeans.
For us Free Democrats, there is no question that the European Union is a unique success story. It has brought peace, freedom, security, progress and prosperity to the people in the member states! This success story must be secured and continued through courageous reforms. For us as a European party, the EU is much more than an economic community, it is a community of values that has its roots in Europe's rich cultural and social diversity and in which our future lies. Even if not everyone likes it and one-sided criticism of Brussels is easier than showing backbone for the European idea: We are committed to Europe and are fighting for a strong Europe not just out of reason, but out of passionate conviction! We have clear ideas and arguments for a Europe that fully unleashes its own forces and the energy of its citizens - on the basis of a modern European constitution. This is what we are fighting for in Europe. That is why we are standing for election. That is why we are seeking the support of voters. For more freedom and more prosperity. Let's just do it!
A Europe that opens up educational and career opportunities - Simply. Make.
We Free Democrats want to make it easier to take advantage of education and employment opportunities throughout the EU. After all, the best educational and career opportunities are the basis for a self-determined life and individual advancement. This is what we are fighting for in Europe:
The member states of the European Union are home to excellent universities with diverse research focuses and internationally recognized expertise. In order to continue to guarantee this excellence, we are calling for further strengthening in the area of education and research, as excellent education and free research are indispensable prerequisites for innovation and prosperity and thus for a better future for Europe. Internships in European companies promise valuable experience and impetus for future careers. We want to unleash the potential that lies in Europe's wealth of knowledge. Be it a student exchange in France, an internship in Sweden or a study abroad program in Poland: We want to break down existing barriers so that the European education area becomes an area of personal opportunity for everyone in the EU. We want to establish the free movement of education as a new fundamental freedom of the European Union.
We want to coordinate the European vocational training and school systems more closely where it serves educational mobility. We therefore want to extend the Copenhagen Process on the quality and recognition of vocational education and training to school education and make it a success like the Bologna Process. We want to harmonize semester and examination periods in the EU. This will simplify the planning of stays abroad and prevent, for example, students from having to extend their studies due to differing periods. We want to make it easier to find the most suitable university across Europe. We also want to simplify application processes. To this end, a central online application portal for the EU should be introduced. We are calling for the introduction of a digital European Student Card so that students can easily identify themselves across Europe.
Erasmus+ is a success story. It has enabled millions of young people to gain experience abroad in Europe. We want to build on this by strengthening Erasmus+ and improving access for teachers, pupils and trainees. Our aim is for all pupils to be able to spend six months of their schooling abroad in Europe, regardless of their parents' income. Other EU partner countries should be offered the status of program country, especially the candidate countries. We particularly want to support multinational universities in border regions and degree courses as well as pre-doctoral and post- doctoral programs that require a stay at at least two European universities or research institutes. This applies in particular to degree courses with a double degree at several universities. In vocational education and training, we particularly want to promote showing young people European prospects in the skilled trades and dual training occupations. To promote social commitment and cultural exchange in Europe, we also want to facilitate cross-border activities by non-profit organizations and strengthen the European Voluntary Service as well as cultural and sports exchanges between member states.
We also want to use the opportunities offered by artificial intelligence (AI) in education. AI applications can support the individual learning of pupils with tailored learning materials. AI also offers the opportunity to relieve the burden on teachers. Pupils should be taught how to use artificial intelligence as early as possible in order to prepare them for a working world that is increasingly influenced by AI. We reject over-regulation of AI that is hostile to innovation.
We also want to remove barriers to labor mobility in the EU and simplify complicated and lengthy processes. All doors must be open to motivated and hard-working people who want to get ahead and use their skills for progress and growth in Europe. In particular, we want to simplify and speed up months of bureaucratic procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. To this end, we are calling for digital one-stop stores as central points of contact in every EU member state. These should, for example, enable the rapid translation of European qualifications into their national equivalents. We call for the EU Posting of Workers Directive to be modernized and simplified. We want to limit the considerable bureaucratic obligations, i.e. fulfilling the obligation to register with the respective country and providing proof of social security affiliation (A1 certificate), to situations worthy of protection and we particularly want to exempt all short professional trips and postings from the directive. We want to enable self-determined working models, in particular remote work in other EU countries, with legal certainty. Entitlements from national compulsory pension systems can be combined in the EU. We want to create more transparency through an EU-wide platform that calculates the various pension entitlements. In this way, we strengthen the flexibility and mobility of employees and the self-employed. We want to create fair working conditions for platform workers, instead of stifling the self-employed, and are committed to a comprehensive revision of the EU Platform Workers Directive. We want to make the EU Working Time Directive more flexible.
We Free Democrats are convinced that labor market and social policy are rightly the responsibility of the member states. The EU only has a political role to play in issues that actually have a significant cross-border impact on the internal market or freedom of movement. Immigration to another member state in order to receive higher social benefits, on the other hand, is not a matter of free movement within the EU. This must also be enforced in practice. The EU Commission must introduce a reform of the child benefit regulations that makes it possible to adjust the amount of child benefit to the cost of living in the child's country of residence.
In view of the worsening shortage of skilled workers, the EU is dependent on the immigration of qualified workers. We Free Democrats are therefore calling for an EU strategy for the recruitment of skilled workers. The goal must be a largely harmonized immigration law for skilled workers that also allows third-country nationals uncomplicated mobility for the purpose of gainful employment. We want to establish a modern two-pillar system: We want to further open up the Blue Card to non- academic skilled workers and we want to lower minimum salary thresholds. We also want to introduce a European talent pool with a points system based on the Canadian model. We want immigration into the labor market and not into the social security systems. We want to extend the Dutch model of a one-year orientation visa for graduates from the world's top 200 universities to the entire EU. This will enable the controlled immigration of qualified specialists and increase the EU's attractiveness in international competition. For well-integrated asylum seekers, there must be the option of "changing tracks" to one of the two pillars
immigration into the labor market. We also want to promote the willingness of many older people to voluntarily contribute their experience and expertise after retirement.
Language barriers in administrative procedures in the EU must be removed. To this end, we want to introduce English as a second administrative language in the European Union. This should enable all EU citizens to communicate better with public authorities in other EU countries. This will facilitate administrative procedures in connection with work, training and studies. In particular, we also want to use AI applications to translate forms and administrative documents.
A Europe that generates growth and cutting-edge innovation - Simply. Make.
We Free Democrats stand for a strong social market economy, openness to technology and free trade. We clearly reject a planned economy, protectionism and subsidy races. That is why we are combative in Europe:
Both the dual transformation on the path to digitalization and climate neutrality as well as international dependencies pose major challenges for the European economy. However, the current EU Commission is tackling this with the wrong instruments, especially when it comes to implementing the Green Deal: it is not the EU's job to restrict companies through detailed control, guarantee sales, allocate resources and artificially set prices. On the contrary: we need more competition, more free trade and better conditions for private investment and start-ups.
Above all, the ever-increasing bureaucratic burden is nipping new economic growth in the bud. Under EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen (CDU), additional bureaucracy has been created on an ongoing basis. EU laws now account for 57 percent of the bureaucratic burden in Germany. Companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the self-employed, are forced to spend valuable energy and time dealing with immense bureaucratic requirements in the face of this regulatory frenzy. We can no longer afford this. Otherwise, economic dynamism and progress will take place outside the EU and jobs and prosperity will be at stake. We Free Democrats therefore want to initiate a trend reversal for a radical reduction in bureaucracy. Only in this way can the EU be internationally competitive as a business location and become an engine for new growth and prosperity. Reducing bureaucracy also strengthens citizens' trust in an efficient EU that solves problems.
To this end, we are calling for a "Bureaucracy Reduction Act". We want to free the economy from at least 50 percent of bureaucratic burdens. For every new burden imposed by EU regulation, existing burdens must be consistently abolished twice in accordance with the "one in, two out" rule. Bureaucracy at EU level is still a black box. There is a lack of control over bureaucratic costs, which often continue to increase in the course of complex legislative procedures.
increase. We call for the compliance costs ultimately incurred by those affected to be assessed in euros and made transparent. It is also important that an empirical inventory is carried out. We therefore call for the systematic recording of bureaucracy costs resulting from EU legislation. The German bureaucracy cost index could serve as a model. In addition, EU directives must be transposed into national law without additional bureaucracy. We reject the overfulfilment of EU requirements, so-called "gold plating". We also call for laws and regulations, where possible, to be passed with a specific expiration date, a so-called "sunset clause". In addition, the current state aid law must be revised. We want to continue to see strong protection of competition in Europe, but the increasing overburdening of state aid with other issues, for example, must be reversed. We need more technological openness and less bureaucracy - including in the Climate and Energy Directive. We reject any tightening of supply chain legislation by the EU.
The EU needs a genuine Commissioner for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises to ensure fair competitive conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises and to reduce bureaucracy. He or she must ensure that no regulations are introduced at EU level that cannot be implemented by SMEs and draw up proposals for the amendment or abolition of existing regulations if they place an undue burden on SMEs. In future, every legislative process should also undergo an SME test that critically examines the potential impact on small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). After all, SMEs are the backbone of the European economy and the driving force behind growth, innovation and prosperity. We want to adapt the definition of SMEs at EU level to the reality of life. Companies with medium-sized capitalization ("small mid caps") and larger capitalization ("mid caps") should also be defined as European SMEs in the future. In addition, the employee threshold must be raised from 250 to 1,250 employees.
Overlapping reporting obligations, which result from a veritable jungle of regulations, also place an unnecessary burden on companies. We are therefore calling for a systematic reporting obligation check by the EU Commission in order to identify and merge or abolish duplicate reporting obligations. We are also calling for a standardized digital reporting portal that provides companies with relevant information in a bundled form and enables the uncomplicated central submission of reports. We are very critical of the design of the EU Supply Chain Directive, the EU Packaging Regulation, the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM), the extension of company-related labor market statistics to small businesses and similar projects. An EU social taxonomy for the uniform definition of socially sustainable investments and financial products should not lead to additional regulatory obligations for companies. Its application should remain voluntary. Bureaucratic burdens must be avoided, material and technological openness must be maintained and protectionist regulations must be prevented.
The effects of Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine, which violates international law, have made it clear what dangers unilateral dependencies pose for supply security and the economy. The EU must also become less dependent on China in particular, which is a competitor and increasingly a systemic rival. We must place the European Union's supply chains on a broader footing, especially when it comes to the supply of critical raw materials, products and technologies. To achieve this, we want to focus more on raw material and technology partnerships. Above all, it is important to us that we reduce dependencies on authoritarian and dictatorial states, which make us vulnerable to blackmail, as far as possible. New risky dependencies must
be avoided. To this end, we are calling for the EU Commission to carry out regular dependency stress tests and, in particular, to evaluate geopolitical risks and potential critical supply chain bottlenecks proactively and reduce them in consultation with companies. In the event of a crisis, we support effective immediate measures such as fast-track approval for critical goods in order to remain capable of acting. Bailing out companies at taxpayers' expense must be ruled out from the outset. We reject planned economic interventions such as production targets for companies.
Critical infrastructure must be protected from the influence of autocratic states. To this end, we want to tighten EU investment controls on foreign direct investment if it jeopardizes the security of the EU.
An important key to a sovereign EU that enables economic growth, innovation and prosperity is free trade worldwide. We Free Democrats stand for fair, rules-based and responsible trade, with a reformed World Trade Organization (WTO) as the foundation. This is all the more true in times when multilateralism is being called into question and protectionism and isolationist tendencies are on the rise worldwide. Our goal is a global free trade area of democracies. We want to gear free trade agreements more towards geostrategic aspects, focus their content on the key objectives and prevent them from being overloaded with additional issues and obligations. Trade agreements should be developed individually with our partners instead of following a "one size fits all" scheme.
We are calling for a new attempt at a free trade agreement with the USA. In view of Donald Trump's possible re-election, we want to at least conclude sectoral agreements with the current US government, for example in the areas of critical raw materials and metals or industrial tariffs. The EU Commission must make the commitment to a transatlantic economic area a priority of its work. The most important goals for a new agreement must be to abolish industrial tariffs and market access barriers, particularly for future technologies, and to define common standards, especially with regard to decarbonization, digitalization and the circular economy. The Trade and Technology Council (TTC) must create the basis for this common economic area. We also call for the TTC to be intensified in the future and expanded to include closely allied nations such as South Korea, Japan and the UK.
The trade agreement with Canada (CETA) must finally be fully ratified in all EU countries, including the regulations on investment protection. In future, investment protection and portfolio investments should be part of the EU's trade competence so that agreements such as CETA do not require unanimity. We also want to push ahead with free trade with South America. We continue to advocate the conclusion of the free trade agreement with the Mercosur states. In addition, the modernized extended framework agreement between the EU and Chile must be concluded and ratified as quickly as possible. With a view to the Middle East, we are calling for talks on a comprehensive free trade agreement with Israel to be initiated on the basis of the existing association agreement. The EU is Israel's most important trading partner. Israel has an extremely strong high-tech sector. Both sides would benefit greatly from a free trade agreement. In our cooperation with the ASEAN states, the long-term goal must be a common free trade area with the EU. We want to conclude at least one agreement with India on individual areas - the goal remains a comprehensive free trade agreement. We are striving for a free trade and investment agreement with Taiwan, without waiting for progress to be made on the agreement, which has rightly been put on ice.
investment agreement with China (CAI). As a first step, the Commission should work with our Taiwanese partners to develop a framework programme for the targeted promotion of trade and investment conditions, which should include concrete facilitations for the exchange of goods and services, the reduction of bureaucratic obstacles, the digitalization of customs formalities and the mutual recognition of degrees, licenses and standards. Particular attention should be paid to SMEs in order to fully integrate them into the exchange with Taiwan. Following the successful ratification of the EU's free trade agreement with New Zealand, the comprehensive trade agreement with Australia must also be concluded quickly. We support the bilateral negotiations between the EU and Switzerland and call for them to be brought to a swift conclusion.
We also call for the EU to place a stronger focus on negotiations on economic partnership agreements with African and Arab partner countries in the medium term. The Maghreb states should also be specifically focused on here, also in view of the refugee flows. Not only in view of the expected increase in Africa's population to 2.5 billion people in 2050 and the strategic importance of the neighboring continent of Africa for Europe's political and economic interests, it is of vital importance for the EU to focus more strongly on economic partnerships with African partner countries in order to guarantee opportunities for local people. We Free Democrats therefore call on the EU to promote cooperation with our neighboring continent in solidarity and to conclude economic cooperation agreements in the short and medium term.
We Free Democrats are committed to technological openness so that Europe's economy can survive the increasingly intense competition and remain attractive to the best researchers. We are clearly against blanket bans and in favor of competition between the best technologies. This includes the use of e-fuels for climate-friendly mobility, hydrogen in the building energy sector and the opportunities offered by fusion technology and small modular reactors (SMRs) for a secure and affordable energy supply. We want to harness the potential of genetic engineering and biotechnology. With a view to the approval of new techniques such as the CRISPR/Cas9 gene scissors, we continue to advocate the revision of genetic engineering law in a fundamentally risk- adapted and technology-open manner and to adapt it to the state of the art. We want to allow in vitro meat and milk produced using microorganisms in the EU. We reject a blanket ban on perfluorinated and polyfluorinated chemicals (PFAS). This applies in particular to non-substitutable applications, for example for the energy transition and in medicine.
We want to further develop the EU framework program for research and innovation "Horizon Europe" and expand it with clear priorities, particularly in the areas of biotechnology and genetic engineering, energy technology and information and communication technology (ICT). We support the central part of the "Investment Plan for Europe", with which the European Union is striving for an improved, more targeted use of EU budget funds. With the help of the European Investment Bank (EIB), investments are to be mobilized in this way - with a focus on infrastructure, research and development of climate-friendly technologies as well as innovations by small and medium-sized enterprises. We want to significantly expand the EIB's financing volume.
To secure further forward-looking investments and innovations, we want to strengthen "InvestEU" - by reallocating funds. With the further development of the European Innovation Council into
a European Agency for Disruptive Innovation, we want to promote disruptive innovations. We want to ensure that Europe, as the world's largest single market, is at the forefront of global research and development of future technologies.
We want to provide founders and young companies in the growth phase with sustainable financing in the EU. In particular, we want a European venture capital regulation that creates the best conditions for venture capital. This will prevent the best ideas and minds from leaving the EU because the second round of financing in particular can no longer be raised in the EU. A "Future Fund Europe" could allocate venture capital to promising companies by pooling risks accordingly. Synergies with the
"InvestEU" program and the resulting financing opportunities should be examined. We are also committed to standardizing the rules on crowdfunding in the European Union. We also want to establish an independent incubator program that stimulates and coaches large numbers of start-ups across Europe and brings them to financing via private venture capital. We call for digital freedom zones under European law: We want to create cross-border "special economic zones" for digital spin- offs, start-ups and spin-offs through experimental spaces and opening clauses. We want to expand the legal forms of European company law (European Private Company [SPE], European Association) in order to provide companies with better framework conditions and more suitable legal forms.
A Europe that protects freedom, diversity and self-determination
- Simply. Make.
For us Free Democrats, the freedom of the individual in responsibility for others is paramount. It is inextricably linked to a diverse, self-determined and open society. We see the EU as a community of values that must protect the freedom of the individual. This is what we are fighting for in Europe:
We all benefit politically, economically and culturally from freedom of travel and unrestricted mobility in the Schengen area. In principle, we want a Europe in which people can travel freely and without border controls. However, the prerequisite for open internal borders is strong, effective protection of the EU's external borders. We are committed to appropriate border protection measures and modern security technology to monitor the border area at the EU's external borders. It must be ensured that refugees and migrants who have already been in a safe third country return there. We Free Democrats call for a faster expansion of the EU border protection agency Frontex to the planned number of 10,000 staff. This must be accompanied by structural reforms and an expansion of control and transparency mechanisms. Frontex should also take over sea rescue operations in the Mediterranean, both to save people from drowning and to prevent illegal border crossings. Ideally, by bringing people safely to places where their asylum applications are examined and decided before they enter the European Union, in order to ensure that those whose asylum applications are rejected are denied entry.
Europe is in urgent need of immigration into the labor market. The EU and its member states must create the conditions for bright minds to decide to immigrate to Europe. In order to increase the acceptance of regular immigration into the labor market among the population in Europe, Europe must get to grips with the problem of irregular migration. We defend the right to protection from persecution, but those who have no chance of a right to stay in the EU should not be allowed to enter in the first place. The irregular migration of people with no prospect of a right to stay in Europe is an enormous challenge for the EU and the confidence of its citizens in its ability to act. In many places, reception capacities have long been exhausted and local authorities are overburdened. Citizens feel the associated problems in their everyday lives and rightly expect solutions. We Free Democrats want to consistently implement the course of the new realpolitik in migration and continue to drive it forward - for more control and order. The EU and its member states must make a success of the fundamental EU asylum reform and prove that they can effectively reduce irregular migration, especially with faster asylum procedures and consistent returns. Because our capacities are limited. Those who emigrate for purely economic reasons are not entitled to asylum in the EU. This is the only way we can offer refuge to people fleeing war and persecution who really need our help. Uniform conditions should prevent secondary migration within the EU. We advocate the establishment of European asylum centers at the EU's external border to ensure an efficient and rapid asylum procedure while maintaining humanitarian standards. We want asylum seekers to be transferred to safe third countries for the asylum procedure and to be accommodated in the third country until their asylum application is recognized - while guaranteeing humanitarian standards and the rule of law.
We want to implement the United Nations' pact for safe, orderly and regular migration at European level. European development cooperation must primarily tackle the causes of flight preventively and thus mitigate them in the long term. We advocate the establishment of humanitarian protection zones in agreement with the respective countries and with EU funding. We want to enable asylum applications to be examined in third countries. This would allow those affected to determine whether they have prospects of remaining in the EU and, if necessary, to avoid a dangerous flight. Of course, in compliance with the Geneva Refugee Convention and fundamental and human rights.
The values of the Union - freedom, democracy and the rule of law - are the foundation on which the EU is built. Anyone who tramples on the rule of law must have their EU funding withdrawn quickly and consistently. In future, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) should be able to freeze EU funds at the request of a member state, the Commission or the Parliament. We want to extend the legal mechanism to violations of all EU values, regardless of whether EU funds are involved.
We call for a European fundamental rights complaint. Citizens and legal entities should be given improved opportunities to take legal action against EU legal acts before the European Court of Justice. After exhausting national legal remedies, they must also be able to take legal action against national legal acts that violate their European fundamental rights. We want to further promote and expand the successful work of the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO).
Europol must be developed into a European Criminal Police Office. The authority must be able to coordinate and support the work of the Member States with effective investigative powers in cross- border matters and in the area of security.
We want a Europe of diversity. The protection of minorities within a democratic community is a prerequisite and a concern of the rule of law. National minorities within the EU have a right to maintain and pass on their culture and language. People of a different skin color or with a migration background must not be subject to discrimination. Everyday discrimination and even more so the systematic exclusion of minorities have no place in Europe. We demand that LGBTIQ demonstrations can take place unhindered and safely throughout the EU. There must be no restrictions on providing factual information about the lives of LGBTIQ people anywhere in the EU. We demand that same-sex marriages concluded within the EU and established parenthoods be recognized with all rights and obligations in the European member states. Reproductive rights such as egg donation and altruistic surrogacy must be respected in other EU member states if they have been legally exercised in one EU member state and must not be criminalized for their citizens. For us, "persecution on grounds of sexual identity" remains a reason for asylum in Europe. In future, EU legislation against discrimination based on racism must also cover homophobia and other forms of discrimination. Neither member states nor candidate countries should be given a discount when it comes to respecting the civil rights of LGBTIQ people. EU funds to the countries concerned must be frozen in the event of violations.
We call for swift and consistent responses to attacks on press freedom by EU member states. In our view, independent media supervision in the Union and the member states is crucial. This is precisely why we are committed to improving the proposed media freedom law. Civil society organizations such as the European Centre for Press and Media Freedom (ECPMF) should be empowered to advocate for freedom of the press and freedom of expression and the protection of media professionals throughout Europe.
Freedom of expression and artistic freedom also apply online. That is why we want to abolish the
obligation to use up- ad filters.
We want to create an area of data freedom and data security. We will work to ensure that European research funds are used specifically for research into data protection technologies and infrastructure. The goal should be a largely self-sufficient Europe with its own cloud providers, including private ones, and European data protection standards. We want to abolish the retention of air passenger data, which is contrary to fundamental rights, in order to protect the data of travelers in the European Union.
For us, the protection of privacy and the right to encryption as well as anonymity in digital spaces are indispensable. We categorically reject network blocking, chat control, data retention and spying on citizens without cause. Instead, we must invest in equipping the police and Europol.
We Free Democrats see a functioning European data protection system with data sovereignty and informational self-determination for citizens as the basis for a fair and fairer society.
and a functioning data economy. We want to make the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) less bureaucratic and develop it further.
We want to digitize the administration in the Member States. To this end, we want to strengthen a European digital identity and oblige the Member States to provide certain administrative services digitally, quickly and unbureaucratically.
We do not accept that women are still disadvantaged in our society. We are committed to improving the compatibility of work and care work - by expanding affordable childcare and making working hours more flexible. We want to improve the compatibility of politics and family life and enable MEPs to vote online after the birth or adoption of a child. We want to promote the career advancement of women and girls through improved STEM education, entrepreneurship education and by supporting private female founders networks. We are committed to ensuring that the remaining countries ratify the Istanbul Convention on combating violence against women and that all countries implement the convention. We demand that the right to health care with safe abortion must be guaranteed in Europe and that reproductive rights must be respected in all member states. We are in favor of a Europe-wide endometriosis action plan.
We Free Democrats want to reform EU law in order to enable the Member States to release cannabis in a controlled manner and pursue an independent drug policy.
A Europe that strengthens freedom, security and democracy worldwide - Simply. Make.
We Free Democrats are committed to ensuring that Europe finds a common response to the realities of foreign and security policy. Because these have changed more fundamentally since the last European elections five years ago than at any time since the Second World War. This is what we are fighting for in Europe:
Russia is waging a war of aggression against Ukraine, which is striving for freedom and democracy, in violation of international law. We remain firmly on the side of the Ukrainians. Ukraine must win the war and regain its territorial integrity and sovereignty. To achieve this, the EU must continue to provide Ukraine with greater humanitarian, financial, economic and military support - including the additional delivery of urgently needed weapons systems such as the Taurus cruise missile. To this end, the capacities of the European arms industry must be increased.
The FDP is committed to a coordinated international reconstruction of Ukraine. The frozen Russian assets should be used for this purpose. The EU is therefore called upon to seek all constitutional possibilities to use the frozen Russian state assets and frozen Russian private assets, insofar as their owners are (co-)responsible for the war of aggression in violation of international law or have benefited from it, for the reconstruction of Ukraine.
and to ensure the reconstruction of Ukraine. Reconstruction and the European integration process must be closely linked from the outset. The EU must support Ukraine even more in the implementation of structural reforms. The focus here is on combating corruption. We support Ukraine's prospects of joining NATO, as set out in the resolutions of the NATO summits of 2008 and 2023. This is because NATO membership for Ukraine is the best guarantee of security and contributes to securing freedom and peace in Europe.
We demand the isolation of Russia in multilateral organizations. Economic sanctions must be extended to a complete embargo and personal sanctions including visa withdrawals and deportation must be imposed. The FDP supports investigations by the International Criminal Court (ICC) and the creation of a special tribunal for the crime of aggressive war. Vladimir Putin and high-ranking Russian officials must be held criminally accountable. We stand firmly by the Russian opposition, which is committed to a free, constitutional and liberal Russia.
We Free Democrats are committed to the universality of human rights as the basis of a free society. We want an EU that takes decisive action against human rights violations, oppression and group- based hostility, works closely with the human rights institutions of the Council of Europe, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) and the United Nations and plays a pioneering role in the protection of international law. For example, in the case of stricter penalties against lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals, intersexuals and queer people (LGBTIQ), development cooperation should be put to the test in dialog with local NGOs, budget support should be withdrawn if necessary and cooperation with state institutions should be terminated.
Decisions in the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) should in future be taken by a qualified majority. The High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy must be institutionally upgraded to an EU Foreign Minister. This minister should be responsible for all central areas of European foreign policy and coordinate to ensure greater coherence and efficiency for the EU and its member states. In addition, a political deputy for defense and security policy is to be appointed, who, like the High Representative himself, is to have the rank of Commissioner. The European External Action Service (EEAS) is to be strengthened as an important substructure so that we speak with one voice vis-à-vis allies, competitors and authoritarian states. We want to strengthen the EU so that it can act in a strategically networked manner in foreign and security policy issues at all times and at all levels. To this end, the EU's strategic compass must be pursued more consistently.
The aim is to create a European Defense Union as an intermediate step towards a European army under joint supreme command and parliamentary control. The military capabilities within the framework of Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO) are to be coordinated and pooled more strongly at European level. We want to expand the European Defense Fund (EDF) as well as joint arms procurement. We are committed to harmonizing arms export regulations in Europe. Arms exports to democratic partners such as NATO countries, Australia, Israel, India, Japan, South Korea and Ukraine should be uncomplicated.
the EU. We want to strengthen the European pillar of NATO and thus the joint political capacity of the EU partners in the alliance. That is why we are committed to prosperous and effective relations between NATO and the EU and ensure a division and prioritization that corresponds to the competencies and realities.
The EU's efforts for security and protection in space must be significantly increased. To this end, we want to strengthen the resilience of satellite-based communication, information, navigation and earth observation.
We advocate the establishment of a European Security Council (ESC) chaired by the High Representative. The ESR would be responsible for agenda-setting and the preparation of opinions and recommendations on strategic issues. The EU Intelligence Analysis Center (EU INTCEN) is also to be developed into an effective European intelligence service. The member states are to share intelligence information as a matter of principle.
Japan, South Korea, India and the democratic ASEAN states should be an even greater focus of European foreign policy in Asia. This also applies to Australia and New Zealand. In addition to intensifying economic relations, shaping the global future requires even closer cooperation on climate and species protection, sustainable energy production, securing resources, security and connectivity.
We advocate an EU strategy towards China that is shaped by our values. China is a systemic and economic rival. We want to improve our competitive position vis-à-vis the People's Republic of China and become more economically independent. We want to strengthen strategic initiatives such as Global Gateway in response to the Chinese Belt and Road Initiative. Human rights crimes such as the mass internment and forced sterilization of Uyghurs must be sanctioned. Critical technologies must not fall into the hands of system rivals such as China. We want to coordinate closely with the G7 by reviving the Coordination Committee on Multilateral Export Controls (CoCom). We also want to examine whether export controls need to be tightened and whether outbound investment screening is necessary. Unnecessary trade barriers must be avoided.
The supply of critical raw materials and energy must be diversified both internationally and through domestic production. Germany going it alone against the interests of our European partners with Nord Stream 1 and 2 was a serious mistake. This was demonstrated not least by the difficulty in responding to Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine. Europe must not make itself vulnerable. Our response is a common foreign energy policy that establishes energy partnerships with reliable countries. We are striving for a hydrogen partnership with Israel in particular. We therefore support the plans to build a pipeline from Israel through the Mediterranean to the European continent. This will make it possible to diversify energy sources and reduce energy dependencies on individual suppliers.
For us Free Democrats, Israel's right to exist and defend itself is non-negotiable. We stand unreservedly by Israel's side and are committed to ensuring that the EU does the same. EU-
Aid funds must not be misused for terror and anti-Semitism. Individuals and organizations that commit or support terror against Israel must be sanctioned. To this end, we call for a global sanctions regime against anti-Israeli terror.
UNRWA has not been able to decisively change the situation in the last 75 years. The organization has clearly outlived its usefulness. Recent incidents have shown that internal reforms are not enough. Instead, the United Nations must reposition itself in the region and allow UNRWA to merge with established structures such as UNHCR, UNDP and WFP. Until UNRWA is transferred to the structures of UNHCR, UNDP, WFP and others, the resumption of payments is only possible in close coordination with Israel and the USA.
We Free Democrats continue to advocate a negotiated two-state solution.
We Free Democrats stand firmly by Taiwan's side. Together with our value partners in the region, we want to advocate stability in the Taiwan Strait at all levels and expand cooperation with Taiwan. We support Taiwan's integration into international organizations. Our goal is for China and Taiwan to reach an agreement in peaceful dialog to enable the citizens of Taiwan to freely decide on their political future.
Furthermore, we must not leave Africa, including the Middle East, and Latin America, as emerging continents, to countries such as Russia or China. We are committed to ensuring that Europe supports the African Union in implementing its visions for Agenda 2063 and a free trade area (AfCFTA). The EU also needs more trade and investment agreements with African countries in order to increase export opportunities and imports of raw materials and energy. We want to develop cultural persuasiveness by massively expanding exchange programs such as Erasmus+ with a focus on countries of the Global South.
A Europe that guarantees the ability to act and sound finances - Simply. Make.
We Free Democrats want to create strong and effective EU institutions through courageous reforms, complete the economic and monetary union and secure sound finances across Europe. This is what we are fighting for in Europe:
We are calling for a smaller Commission with 18 ministers and a Parliament with a seat in Brussels, the right to make proposals to the Commission President and the power to initiate legislation. As a first step, the next Commission must make a voluntary commitment to introduce a legislative initiative at the request of Parliament. The EU Direct Elections Act should introduce a voting age of 16, European electoral lists, a common election day and the Spitzenkandidaten principle, but should dispense with a gender quota. We advocate that a convention should draw up a federal or federal- state constitution for the European Union, to be voted on in a pan-European referendum.
The EU's enlargement policy needs more realism. It must also be accompanied by institutional reforms so that the EU becomes receptive. The prospect of EU accession is a key instrument for securing democracy, internal and external security, political stability and economic prosperity on our continent in the long term. In this regard, we support the resolutions of the European Council of December 14, 2023. It goes without saying that the candidates must meet all the criteria before joining. We want to support the countries on this path so that their contribution is a success that strengthens the EU both internally and externally. A special focus must be placed on the rule of law. A Turkey under the authoritarian rule of President Erdogan cannot be a candidate for EU membership. We therefore want to end the EU accession negotiations with Turkey in their current form and place relations on a new basis of close security and economic cooperation. Following the conclusion of the Windsor Agreement, we want to deepen the new partnership between the EU and the UK wherever possible. We Free Democrats are also in favor of enabling flexible integration so that some states can take further steps towards integration. At the same time, the door will always remain open for the other member states.
We stand for sound finances. With the FDP, there will be no entry into a debt union. In the coming legislative period, Europe must begin to repay the loans taken out for the Corona Solidarity Fund as agreed. We reject Eurobonds. As in the past, the EU's revenue should mainly come from transfers from member states, measured according to their economic strength. For us, the fight against inflation has top priority. Policies at EU level and in the Member States must provide the best possible support for the ECB's fight against inflation. This includes a budgetary policy that refrains from further debt-financed economic stimulus programs. For the same reason, credible debt reduction in highly indebted member states must be a priority in the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact. The agreement reached by the Member States in December 2023 on the initiative of French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire and German Finance Minister Christian Lindner on new fiscal rules while retaining the Maastricht criteria is therefore a major success for financial stability in the EU.
For EU budget policy, we call for restraint in the creation of new own resources. In particular, we reject new own resources based on statistical corporate profits and instead call for the repayment of the European Union's NextGenerationEU liabilities from the EU's general budget. Of course, this does not affect the Member States' obligations to the EU. The EU's indebtedness in the context of NextGenerationEU ("corona bonds") must remain a one-off exception and the EU must return to the debt ban. The EU budget must be consistently geared towards investment in the future. Inflation can only be overcome in the long term by creating additional supply. This includes deepening the single market - especially for labor, energy, capital and digital services - reducing bureaucracy and barriers to investment and concluding new free trade agreements.
We want to complete the Economic and Monetary Union and deepen the Capital Markets Union. The Capital Markets Union is a booster for private investment. That is why the FDP supports the so- called Listing Act, which facilitates access to stock market financing for start-ups and medium-sized companies. We also want to make it easier for private investors to access the capital market. That is why we have
In the European Parliament, we voted against a ban on rebates in securities trading (Payment for Or- der Flow, PFOF), which would weaken low-cost and innovative competitors. We are calling for an adjustment for a fair and transparent coexistence of commission and fee-based advice for investors and we are committed to ensuring that experienced private investors can be offered a wider range of products with fewer bureaucratic requirements than before.
Cash is freedom. That is why we are committed to the unrestricted preservation of cash as a means of payment in the European Union and reject uniform cash ceilings. We constructively support the introduction of a digital euro as a supplement to the existing cash. As digital cash, the digital euro should be usable both offline and online. At the same time, the privacy of citizens must remain fully protected. There must be no compulsion to use the digital euro and there must be no additional risks for the financial system. At the same time, we want to make the common market in Europe attractive for cryptocurrencies and positively support their development.
A Europe that grows together in a digital, climate-neutral and modern way - Simply. Make.
We Free Democrats want to turn Europe into a continent of digital opportunities, achieve energy security and effective climate protection through technological openness and a market economy and align the European infrastructure for the future. This is what we are fighting for in Europe:
We are committed to expanding the digital single market and breaking down national barriers. We want to make it easier to scale digital business models and establish cross-border start-ups. To this end, we want to ensure a uniform interpretation of the law by a European Digital Single Market Authority. Citizens must be able to travel throughout the EU with a digital identity that can be used easily and interoperably for public and private sector services. We defend the principle of net neutrality in the European Union. Audiovisual content should also be included in the scope of the Geoblocking Regulation in future. We are committed to modern licensing and monetization models. We want to create a European mobile communications area in which consumers can use mobile communications contracts from all member states throughout Europe and without restriction. We want to extend freedom of roaming to all candidate countries. In an increasingly insecure world, Europe must be able to protect critical infrastructure from foreign interference. We are therefore calling for common security standards for digital infrastructure. Components from companies that are subject to the influence of authoritarian regimes must not be installed in the digital critical infrastructure (e.g. 5G network).
We want to make the EU a hotspot for artificial intelligence that serves people's life chances instead of disempowering them. That is why we reject conservative surveillance wishes and left-wing over- regulation fantasies in equal measure. The FDP is committed to an unbureaucratic and practical implementation of the European AI regulation that enables innovation
and civil rights. For AI training data, we advocate a fair use principle based on the American model. We want to strengthen the competitiveness of the European AI economy and enable modern monetization models for rights holders.
We want to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees if possible. The FDP relies on emissions trading and technological openness to achieve the European climate targets. Emissions trading is the most effective and efficient climate protection instrument, as it sets a clear greenhouse gas limit. By 2035, we want to merge the ETS 1 and 2 systems to make them even more efficient and include remaining emission sources such as waste and agriculture. The medium-term goal is uniform CO2 pricing. We reject piecemeal regulations such as the Ecodesign Regulation and the Ecodesign Directive or additional CO2 pricing through energy taxes. This applies in particular to the building sector: ETS 2 leads to cost-effective refurbishment where the CO2 avoidance costs are lowest. We want to ensure that the resulting technological openness is not jeopardized by other regulations. We therefore strictly reject additional regulatory measures such as the European Building Efficiency Directive (EPBD) and the CO2 fleet limits. We will abolish the fleet limits without replacement. In addition to emissions trading, framework conditions for the development of infrastructure are completely sufficient. We are calling for a regulatory pause in the Green Deal. Companies first need sufficient leeway to implement the targets that have already been set.
Climate protection can only succeed internationally. Europe plays a central role both in international negotiations and in domestic climate protection. The aim must therefore be to establish an international emissions trading system as quickly as possible. To this end, the established climate club must be expanded and supplemented by an agreement on the harmonization of a uniform emissions trading system. Europe must also strengthen the climate protection efforts of other countries. This is a matter of equal footing. That is why international guidelines on the use of different technologies are out of the question. Instead, we must strengthen the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) in accordance with Article 6 of the Paris Agreement and also meet our climate targets by using these certificates.
We are committed to innovation-friendly regulation of the extraction, use and storage of CO2. Narrow-minded debates about the priority of CO2 avoidance over Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) and Carbon Capture and Utilization (CCU) are only delaying the market ramp-up. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has already made it clear that the use of these technologies is indispensable for achieving the climate targets. We are creating an additional incentive by rewarding negative emissions with free CO2 certificates. We also want to add a separate negative emissions target to the EU climate target. Anyone who removes greenhouse gases from the atmosphere through reforestation or technical methods should receive a free certificate without increasing the total amount of certificates. CO2 sequestration in the agricultural sector must also be taken into account.
In order to accelerate the expansion of infrastructure and renewable energies, we are setting the course at EU level for a further acceleration of planning and approval procedures. To this end, we want to limit environmental impact assessments (EIAs) to projects with a cross-border environmental impact. We want to remove obstacles to speeding up planning under European law by giving the Member States more leeway. For example, many projects require an EIA, the cost of which is often disproportionate to the benefit.
For the energy transition, we need a new market-based electricity market design to enable a carbon-neutral, secure and cost-effective energy supply. We want long-term contracts to become more accessible for small companies. The local availability of electricity should play a role in pricing. Energy storage and renewable energies must be integrated into the market and manage without state aid. Incentives must be created for the flexible provision and use of electricity. The electricity grid between the Member States must be expanded and the European internal energy market created.
Nuclear fusion offers the potential to generate energy safely and in a climate-neutral way in the future. We want to create an innovation-friendly legal framework for nuclear fusion outside of nuclear law that takes into account the lower risks of this technology. Hydrogen and synthetic fuels offer great opportunities as the energy storage systems of the future. Regulatory and bureaucratic hurdles that hinder the rapid ramp-up of hydrogen must be removed. We want to prevent the forced unbundling of gas and hydrogen grid operation, as this would massively hinder infrastructure conversion. Alternative fuels, such as e-fuels, should be permitted both as pure fuel and as an admixture. This is because combustion engines are not harmful to the climate per se, but their operation with fossil fuels is. In order to make the fleet of over one billion vehicles with combustion engines worldwide more climate-friendly, we are therefore focusing on replacing fossil fuels with synthetic fuels and committing to the combustion engine as part of people's mobility. We want to make combustion engines climate-friendly, not ban them.
In order to preserve biodiversity, it is necessary to take evidence-based measures and evaluate them regularly using verifiable criteria. Biodiversity certificates, such as those introduced in Australia, could also provide market incentives here. The populations of many protected animal species have increased massively in many places in recent years. Where these animal species cause significant conflicts with the use of nature or the protection of other species, it must be possible to regulate the population sensibly. This applies in particular to the wolf. We want to lower the protection status of the wolf for those regions in which a healthy conservation status has been achieved.
We want to expand cooperation between the EU and the World Health Organization and resolutely drive forward the implementation of the EU's global health strategy. We want to create a common European health data space that improves care, enables innovation and meets data protection requirements. We want to reduce bureaucracy in the healthcare sector and speed up approval procedures without compromising patient safety. In order to ensure access to medicinal products for rare diseases, the European benefit assessment must take into account their special features in a practical way. Overly bureaucratic procedures disproportionately affect small manufacturers in particular and lead to medical products being withdrawn from the market. With the joint purchase of vaccines, the first major joint procurement of the European Union in the health sector has taken place. We believe it makes sense to use the importance of the European Single Market for increased joint procurement in the medical sector in order to ensure security of supply.
We Free Democrats see the driver's license as freedom in action. It enables mobility, especially in rural areas. That is why we want to lower the minimum age for obtaining a car driving license and
allow accompanied driving from the age of 16. This demonstrably leads to greater road safety. At the same time, we reject restrictions for senior citizens through mandatory regular health tests as a prerequisite for renewing a driving license. These discriminate against older people, who demonstrably have lower accident rates than other age groups.
The FDP is committed to fair competitive conditions on the European railways. This requires free access to all European rail networks and a separation of network and operations. We want to make a corresponding attempt to further develop the existing rail passports. Furthermore, we are committed to the consistent expansion of the trans-European rail networks into high-performance and high- speed corridors. The goal is a European high-speed network. Rail networks and ticketing systems should be harmonized, network and operation separated and the European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) introduced across the board. We also want to create an EU standard for maglev trains.
We want to make aviation climate-neutral by 2050 without bans and additional taxes and levies. The instruments for pricing CO2 emissions in aviation are emissions trading and the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA). We want to improve the framework conditions for the use of air cabs and drones.
The production of high-quality food on our own doorstep is in our own best interests. The work of farmers deserves our appreciation. Respect for property and entrepreneurial responsibility must be the guiding principle of European agricultural policy. We call for a market-based Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) that is less characterized by subsidy payments and excessive bureaucracy. Too often in the past, restrictions were imposed on agriculture for ideological reasons, which were compensated for with money. However, good agricultural policy also exists without money. We therefore want to gradually reduce area-based direct payments under the first pillar over a period of 15 years. In return, we will improve competitive conditions and radically reduce bureaucracy. It must be ensured that all EU countries meet the same standards and that the same production conditions exist. EU directives must therefore be transposed into national law without additional bureaucracy. This is the only way that agriculture can remain viable for the future and successfully assert itself on the market under equal competitive conditions. This includes, among other things, the withdrawal of mandatory set-asides.
The extensive legal requirements, regulations and resulting inspections lead to a considerable amount of bureaucracy for agricultural businesses, which also restricts the initiative of farmers. The European Union must work resolutely to reduce bureaucratic hurdles. The once-only principle should be applied here.
We do not want low animal welfare standards to lead to a competitive advantage. That is why we need Europe-wide minimum standards for animal welfare that do not overburden small and medium-sized farms. We want to fundamentally simplify the EU marketing standards for fruit and vegetables. Instead of the external appearance, the quality of the product alone should be decisive. We want to enable innovations in agriculture such as genetic engineering through rapid and scientifically sound approval procedures. In the use and approval of plant protection products
we clearly oppose ideological prejudgement and blanket restrictions. The approval of individual substances or groups of substances must not be arbitrary, but must be based on scientifically sound standards.
We advocate a complete reorganization of European genetic engineering law. Not only must the assessment of traditional green genetic engineering be adapted to the current state of knowledge, but so-called new breeding techniques, such as genome editing using CRISPR/Cas9 , must also be regulated in a progress-oriented and legally clear manner. The aim must be to evaluate the product and not the method of production. New breeding techniques in particular offer environmentally friendly solutions with highly precise and cost-effective biotechnological interventions. Resistant plants can significantly reduce the use of pesticides and fertilizers.
We want a European fisheries policy that combines sustainability, social justice and economic stability on an equal footing. We reject efforts by the European Commission to increasingly subject recreational angling to the requirements of the Common Fisheries Policy and close-meshed data collection.
