
European election program
2024
until 2029
Strong Germany
A strong team
... are we, the members of the top team for the FREIES WÄHLER in Europe. We bring together expertise from local politics, agriculture, small and medium-sized businesses and the world of finance. All of this is needed in the European Parliament in order to shape a European policy that offers Germany more opportunities than risks. We stand for a liberal policy that respects the democratic principle of subsidiarity and in which extremism of any kind has no place. We stand for diversity and tolerance, for performance and commitment and for justice and fairness.
A strong Germany
... means for us, above all, a Germany that is aware of its great responsibility in Europe and also assumes this responsibility. Our work, our commitment and our arguments are aimed at representing our Germany as the part of Europe that contributes significantly to the strength of the European Union and the part of the European Union that takes the lead and plays a pioneering role - a pioneer, for example, in the development of new key technologies in the areas of energy transition, digitalization and agriculture. In Germany's key industries, the EU has sometimes been more of an obstacle than a support in recent years. We want to openly represent German interests here. We stand by the side of the self-employed and entrepreneurs in our country.
A strong Europe
... means for us, above all, a European Union that is once again strategically capable of representing and defending our values and interests in the world and that secures peace, our security and our prosperity. Europe's importance in the world has declined in recent years: the current situation is characterized by dwindling economic competitiveness, unresolved fundamental differences between member states, particularly in financial and migration policy, neglected education policy and digitalization and, last but not least, significant external dependence in terms of military security, energy and pharmaceutical supplies. Europe must be put back on a course that restores the economic power of the European Union to its former strength.
Our aim is to ensure that the voice of freedom, science and reason is strengthened in the next European Parliament and that right-wing and left-wing populists do not jeopardize the functioning of the European Union in the long term.
 - Good for Germany - good for Europe
Europe of values	4
Europe as a community of values	4
Europe as a citizens' democracy	6
Europe as a meeting place	8
Europe as a peace project	10
Europe of security	11
Europe as a security guarantor	11
Europe as border guard	13
Europe as a global player	15
Europe as a development aid worker	19
Europe as a defense community	20
A Europe of liveable regions	22
Europe as an agricultural area	22
Europe as an environmental and climate protector	27
Europe as a social union	31
Europe as a guarantor of gender equality	32
Europe as a health guarantor	33
Europe as an educational area	34
Europe of innovation	36
Europe as a driver of innovation	36
Europe as a single market	39
Europe as consumer protector	41
Europe as legislator	42
Europe as a digital location	43
Europe as a guarantee of mobility	44
Europe as a trading power	46
Europe of sound finances	47
Europe as a currency area	48
Europe as a housekeeper	50
We FREIE WÄHLER are a force in the political center that has grown out of the reality of our citizens' lives. They are the ones who shape us with their commitment, and it is their liberal democratic values that we represent.
As FREIE WÄHLER, we act pragmatically and without ideology. We reject any extremes, be it on a political, social, cultural or religious level. We see ourselves as defenders of a diverse society and therefore promote coexistence and civic engagement. We constantly strive to bring people together and make their voices heard. In view of the current challenges, we want to implement the best solutions. We therefore actively counteract the fragmentation of society and see ourselves as preservers of the free and democratic order in Germany and Europe.
We stand for more personal responsibility in our society. We want to counteract the division in society. We stand for the promotion of a respectful culture of debate - including on social media. We stand together against an increasing social cancel culture.
Our aspiration is a free Europe that tackles the challenges of the present and future pragmatically and without ideology. A Europe that sees itself as the servant of its sovereign, the people, and focuses on their well-being. Fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law, human rights, freedom of the press and freedom of expression are non-negotiable for us. We will demand that all member states and candidate countries respect and promote these values at European level.
The major challenges of our complex world can only be mastered together at European level. The aim is to create the best Europe for all citizens.
Europe as a community of values
Europe is a community of values that has its roots in Western Christian culture, which has been shaped by humanist, Jewish and Enlightenment influences. We want to preserve and promote this cultural diversity. We cannot imagine a Europe without freedom, democracy and the rule of law. We will always stand up for these values and actively demand that they are upheld.
Europe's importance in the world has declined in recent years. Dwindling economic competitiveness, unresolved fundamental differences between the member states - particularly in financial and migration policy - neglected education policy and digitalization and, last but not least, significant external dependence - concerning military security, energy supply or the supply of medicines, for example - characterize the present.
However, the major challenges of our time do not only concern relations with non-European powers or countries, but many problems also remain unresolved within the EU.
Guarantee equal rights
We FREIE WÄHLER are committed to a Europe that values the dignity of every citizen and guarantees it without restriction. Any form of discrimination
We reject discrimination on the basis of gender, descent, language, homeland and origin, faith, religious or political views, as well as on the basis of impairments. Our fundamental European values are non-negotiable for us. Countries outside and within the EU where European values are not upheld must be confronted more resolutely.
Defending fundamental rights effectively
The Europe we want to live in is value-based and a protective shield for all its citizens. The existing rule of law mechanism must therefore be strictly applied. If individual member states break the rules, we also want to create the possibility of financial sanctions in the EU budget so that EU funding can be withdrawn. As a last resort, measures such as exclusion from the eurozone or the EU must also be considered in the event of repeated violations. Sanctions against individual EU member states must not lead to cities and municipalities as well as civil society initiatives within the member state having to forego European funding. We therefore want to create the instrument of direct funding for such cases.
Securing peace and freedom
We are committed to the realization of a united Europe. Social conflicts are intensifying the political discourse in many member states. Extreme parties are gaining ground in Europe and debates today are often irreconcilable and ideological. As guardians of the democratic and liberal order, we want to mediate between different interests in order to achieve a pragmatic and objective consensus for the benefit of all citizens. Europe is a continent of peace and freedom. We will therefore do everything necessary to preserve, protect and promote this.
Protect minorities
We call for active protection of minorities in Europe. Minorities are repeatedly discriminated against or even openly attacked. Anti-Semitism, antiziganism and attacks on people with a migrant background are not developments that we accept in silence. We will actively combat this misanthropy. It does not matter whether it is individual attacks or structural discrimination. We are calling for a new, more ambitious EU strategy with sanctions to protect minorities in all member states.
Promoting the German language in Europe
We see linguistic and cultural diversity as a great European strength with integrative power and want to protect and strengthen it. Dialects, regional and minority languages, such as those of the German minority in Poland, are identity-forming and therefore worth protecting. With over 100 million German-speaking citizens in the EU, we are calling for the introduction of German as an equal European working language.
Strengthening Europe's role in the world
The global balance of power has shifted. The liberal-democratic social model of the West has noticeably lost its appeal and influence. Autocratic systems are on the rise worldwide. We want to strengthen Europe's role in this conflict of social systems. The aim must be to maintain global competitiveness at all levels, from the economy to defense. At the same time, Europe must remain an anchor for peace and freedom in the world and actively and pragmatically defend its values.
Enforcing European values on the Internet
We are open to technological developments, but also always keep an eye on their consequences for the way we live together. One of the most important developments is the Internet, which has become a matter of course for many citizens. The virtual world is not a legal vacuum. Many laws on the Internet are in need of improvement. We must be in a position to better prosecute violations of these laws.
Preserving living culture
The EU complements the policies of the member states in the area of culture. The focus here is on the preservation of European cultural heritage and the promotion of cross-border cooperation between cultural institutions and creative artists. European cultural funding must be maintained. In order for more citizens to be able to take advantage of this funding, the application options must be made less bureaucratic and more widely advertised. We see culture as a living process, which is why new forms of cultural activity must also be considered for funding. Culture is evolutionary and an expression of the regional socio-cultural environment.
Preserve diversity
We advocate a Europe in which all people can live freely, regardless of their sexual orientation and gender identity. The goal formulated by the EU of creating an area of freedom, security and justice must be implemented for all people. The EU has already significantly improved the living situation of LGBTIQ* people in many countries. In some countries, however, attempts are being made to reverse the achievements of recent years. We therefore call for an increase in funding for educational work and the "Program for the Promotion of Diversity". In addition, we call for the recognition of registered partnerships and same-sex marriages in all member states, in line with the case law of the European Court of Justice.
Europe as Citizens' democracy
Political decision-making processes and their results are often perceived by many people as non-transparent and distant from their own lives. However, they often have a considerable influence on local life in cities and municipalities. The lobbying scandals of recent years, such as the corruption scandal surrounding the deposed EU Vice-President Kaili, undermine people's trust in the EU. Legislative initiatives that are alien to life, such as the planned Europe-wide obligation to renovate buildings, are also damaging the reputation of the European institutions.
We urgently need to counter this loss of acceptance. We need to regain lost trust. Europe can only be preserved and strengthened through fundamental reforms. We FREIE WÄHLER want to actively support and steer these processes.
Our goal is a Europe of citizens, not a Europe of functionaries and decisions far removed from reality. We want an EU in which political processes are transparent, decisions are made in the interests of the people and the sovereign is not only involved, but actively participates in decision-making. This EU should take care of the big questions and issues of the future and let local people shape their own lives.
We stand for a Europe of citizens and regions - and oppose a centralist direction. Europe must concentrate on the important tasks: securing peace, prosperity and security.
Introduce referendums on European issues
We are a grassroots democratic movement that is firmly anchored in the cities and municipalities. For us, it goes without saying that citizens should also be heard on European issues. We therefore advocate referendums on important European policy issues at federal level. Citizens must have a say in EU enlargements and further deepening in the sense of new transfers of tasks.
Strengthening the European Citizens' Initiative
We want to further strengthen the European Citizens' Initiative (EIB). It enables committed citizens to put forward their political ideas in Europe. We want to expand the application possibilities of the instrument and create the possibility of binding Europe-wide citizens' decisions.
Extending the rights of the European Parliament
The European Parliament is the only directly elected institution in the European context. We want to further strengthen it by striving to expand its competences and responsibilities. We want a genuine right of initiative for the European Parliament in order to be able to bring the interests of citizens directly into the European legislative process.
Creating a fairer distribution of seats
The distribution of seats in the European Parliament does not currently correspond to the population share of the countries in Europe. As a result, a German vote is worth less than that of a voter from a smaller member state. We want the distribution of seats in the European Parliament to be based as closely as possible on the principle of "one man, one vote". For this reason, we also oppose the current deliberations on percentage hurdles in the European elections.
Making lobbying transparent
We want to make the influence of all non-parliamentary interest groups on the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers transparent and thus expose any influence that does not correspond to democratic values. To this end, we advocate a revision of the EU lobby register.
Limiting the competences of the EU
Due to our roots in local politics, we know that local challenges often require individual solutions. The EU should therefore only be responsible if a task cannot be better tackled at federal, state or municipal level in the member states. The EU must focus on core issues such as migration and security policy or the promotion of the internal market. We are therefore committed to clarifying the responsibilities of the EU and member states in the European treaties.
Focusing on topics of the future
The challenges of the changing global times cannot be solved nationally. These include dealing with digitalization and artificial intelligence, the rise of China and India as competitors on global markets, the loss of competitiveness, political instability within the EU and the rise of extreme parties worldwide. The
The preservation of natural resources, energy security and the persistently high migration pressure must become the focus of European policy considerations. Too often, the EU revolves around itself.
Revise the principle of unanimity
We value Europe's diversity. However, this occasionally leads to fundamentally divergent interests clashing. We therefore advocate replacing the unanimity principle with democratic majority decisions in certain areas of European policy.
Promoting transparency and thoroughness
We want the European Parliament to make full use of its negotiating leeway in the three planned readings. The shortened procedure, which has become the rule, should only be used in really urgent cases. We want to achieve maximum transparency in the negotiations with the EU Commission and the Council of Ministers. In addition, society as a whole must be better involved in future EU legislation.
Elect EU Commission in Parliament
We want to drastically reduce the size of the Commission. We believe that a maximum of ten portfolios is sufficient to shape Europe effectively. The focus must always be on the concerns of citizens. We also want European municipalities to have a central point of contact at the EU Commission. In order to achieve far-reaching democratization of the EU institutions, the Commissioners must be elected by the Parliament in future. To this end, the European treaties must be adapted accordingly.
Reorganize EU management staff
The balance of power between the President of the European Council, the President of the Commission, the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, the President of the Eurogroup and the President of the Council of Ministers has not yet been sufficiently clarified and balanced. We continue to advocate a clarification and reduction of the leadership personnel to fewer, but more effective offices.
Respect the principle of connectivity for EU laws
New EU laws can be very expensive for local authorities to implement. There is no financial compensation as there is for laws passed by the federal states. We want to change that: We want local authorities to receive cost compensation from the EU for the implementation of EU law.
Winning a seat in parliament
We want the European Parliament to meet in one place only in future. The regular relocation not only causes enormous costs, but also releases considerable amounts of CO2 as MEPs and their office materials are regularly transported back and forth between countries.
Europe as a meeting place
For us FREIE WÄHLER, Europe is a project of peace and cooperation between citizens. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen a weakening of social cohesion in the EU and national egoisms are once again increasingly guiding our actions.
The EU, one of the greatest projects of international understanding of all time, is currently losing acceptance and significance. We want to actively counteract this by bringing people together in order to strengthen European awareness. We want to achieve this through a citizens' Europe that offers a wide range of opportunities for encounters and education on European issues.
Strengthening European educational exchange
The European Erasmus+ funding program for education, training, youth and sport is an effective instrument for intercultural education and European youth exchange. However, demand is higher than the available supply and the bureaucratic hurdles are too high. We therefore want to provide the program with better funding and simplify its structure. The Erasmus+ funding program is currently only aimed at a specific group of people. We are committed to extending it to all social and age groups in order to further promote European encounters.
Promoting European education
Unfortunately, the structures, working methods and mechanisms of the EU are still not as deeply rooted in people's consciousness as they need to be. We therefore want all political levels in Germany - from the cities and municipalities to the federal government - to devote more attention to imparting knowledge about our common European project. We are therefore also committed to intensifying European educational cooperation.
Expanding town twinning
Town twinning strengthens the European sense of community and promotes international understanding. They are invaluable for European cohesion. We are therefore committed to strengthening municipal twinning work. Town twinning should help to develop cooperation and exploit synergies.
Enabling cultural exchange across borders
We want to strengthen voluntary projects in the field of youth exchange and civic encounters, including within the framework of town twinning. We support cross-border voluntary work by civil society organizations. These include clubs, associations, trade unions, research institutions, educational institutions and church and charitable organizations.
Creating an EU volunteering marketplace
Without voluntary work, our society will not be able to survive in the long term. That is why we want to strengthen volunteering and all people who volunteer for an organization without remuneration or take on tasks that serve the common good. We believe it is necessary for these non-profit workers to benefit from attractive benefits, e.g. higher tax relief or free tickets for local public transport, from government agencies. We also advocate the introduction of an EU-wide online platform to improve the networking of volunteers. This platform serves the exchange and cross-border placement of volunteers within Europe and thus builds on the positive experiences with municipal volunteer exchanges. We need clear regulations in the context of cross-border placement so that volunteers are not overburdened and the offers respect basic values such as the European concept of humanity. We are convinced that "healthy" volunteering at a European level sustainably promotes cultural and human cooperation within the framework of the European idea.
Harmonizing sports funding in the EU
As part of the European Health Union, we want to expand and harmonize the promotion of sport in the member states across Europe. To this end, the national associations must be networked via the EU Health Policy Platform to develop and implement targeted measures. Our aim is to encourage as many Europeans as possible to adopt an active and healthy lifestyle in the long term through sport and competition.
Recognizing e-sports as a sport
We are convinced that politics at all levels, and especially at European level, must take social, scientific, cultural and sociological developments into account and create appropriate framework conditions. We therefore want to recognize e-sports activities, which are particularly popular with children and young people, as a sport and promote them accordingly.
Europe as a peace project
We FREIE WÄHLER want to give all European countries that respect our fundamental values and meet the relevant criteria the prospect of accession. A large, united Europe strengthens us economically and in terms of foreign policy. Therefore, every European country that is part of our system of values should have the option of participating in our European work of peace from the outset. Honest accession prospects have already proved to be a driving force for reform in the Central Eastern European countries following the dissolution of the Eastern bloc.
At the moment, the EU is not sufficiently set up to be described as sustainably receptive. The fact that a single country can block decisions in too many areas or that every small country always has to provide an EU Commissioner makes it difficult for the institutions to work. We must change this situation as quickly as possible in order to be able to offer credible reception prospects again in the short term. We therefore rely on further possibilities for majority decision- making in clearly defined policy areas. These current systemic problems in the EU must not be allowed to hold up accession processes.
Stop Turkey's accession to the EU
Particularly in light of the political developments in recent years, we firmly reject the admission of Erdogan's Turkey to the EU. We want to permanently end the accession negotiations in view of the development towards an authoritarian state. This development pains us because it does not strengthen Europe, but a united Europe is more important than sheer size. The aim must remain to offer Turkey - like other non-European countries with close ties to the EU - a privileged partnership based on the principle of close cooperation with separate decision- making.
Enabling enlargement of the Western Balkans
We want to continue negotiations with the countries of the Western Balkans. Influences from China and the Arab region in particular must be vehemently pushed back. In the medium term, the prospect of the countries of the Western Balkans joining the EU is undisputed, as is our unwavering determination to formally include this part of our continent in the European family. However, in view of the progress of negotiations to date and the ongoing consolidation of the Union, it will not be possible to admit them in the near future without further ado. We Free Democrats are committed to ensuring that the necessary conditions for the accession of the Western Balkan countries to the EU are created as quickly as possible.
Involving civil society in expansions from the outset
Further EU accessions must not be discussed behind closed doors. We therefore advocate the intensive involvement of all social interest groups in order to discuss future rounds of enlargement in an open and transparent manner. Before another country can join the EU, a referendum must be held in Germany.
Expansion of the EU neighborhood policy
We want to intensify the EU's neighborhood policy with the regions bordering Europe. In this way, we want to sustainably strengthen respect for human rights, the rule of law and the development of democracy and a market economy beyond our external borders and support them through incentive programs. We want to take the opportunity to support the EU's neighboring countries in their internal reforms towards more democracy. However, we also want to strengthen our economic and foreign policy position as Europe in these regions and make better use of it. Europe must pursue an active neighborhood policy in line with our European interests. The keywords here are training, migration and repatriation agreements, energy partnerships, raw material and production location agreements.
Europe must become safer: Uncontrolled migration, wars in the surrounding area, insecurity felt in everyday life as well as gang and organized crime are a burden on our personal lives. We Free Democrats want to change this by massively strengthening European security both internally and externally.
Border controls and barriers within Europe are a sign of chaos and weakness and must be avoided. Externally, however, Europe must regain sovereignty over its borders immediately. This is not a national task for the border states, but for the EU as a whole and must therefore be guaranteed and paid for by the EU.
Europe as a security guarantor
The EU security agency Europol must be further developed into a European police office with its own executive powers. The aim must be to make it capable of acting across member state borders. This applies in particular to serious crimes in cyberspace that are committed across borders, such as organized drug and arms trafficking, child pornography and cyber-attacks, as well as serious crimes of organized crime, insofar as these reveal transnational structures.
It must be prevented that criminal gangs, clans, smugglers, drug traffickers and cyber criminals can operate largely unhindered in Europe due to open borders, while law enforcement authorities must continue to stop at borders. Good coordination, a reduction in bureaucracy and the ability to act quickly must enable law enforcement authorities to act across borders and prosecute criminals and criminal organizations throughout Europe.
Deepening cooperation between the police and judiciary
Challenges such as organized crime and terrorism require more joint action in Europe. We welcome the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which, however
clearly defined responsibilities. We advocate better cooperation between the police and judicial authorities of the EU member states. This means further opening up European borders for the police and judiciary, without calling into question the principle of subsidiarity. However, what we cannot achieve in Germany between the federal states will not work in the EU either. Germany must therefore set a good example and introduce measurable reforms at all levels of police cooperation.
Strengthening European security agencies
We want to give the European security agencies Europol and Eurojust as well as the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) more far-reaching powers to act. The European Parliament and the national parliaments must be given more control rights and room for maneuver in home affairs and justice policy.
Promoting the exchange of information between judicial and law enforcement authorities We want to massively strengthen cooperation between judicial and law enforcement authorities within Europe. In particular, we are committed to strengthening the joint fight against terrorism within the framework of the
"European Counter Terrorism Center" and to focus more on cross-border organized crime. We call for more information sharing between member states and EU institutions, including the Parliament, to improve situational awareness and combat security threats. We also call for a strengthening of the Single Analysis and Analysis Mechanism (SIAC) and the Rapid Alert System (RAS).
Intensify cooperation with Interpol
Crime does not stop at our external European borders. We therefore also want to intensify international cooperation with law enforcement authorities within the framework of Interpol.
Training European police units
We also want to strengthen the joint cross-border training and further training of our police within the framework of CEPOL. This is a prerequisite for ensuring that cooperation between the security authorities functions smoothly in practice.
Digitizing investigative work
We need state-of-the-art technology in Europe to be able to identify criminals and threats quickly. That is why we are committed to modern equipment for the security authorities. In line with this, laws and regulations must also be adapted to improve the networking of security authorities and their data exchange while safeguarding the data protection rights of innocent bystanders. Existing or future IT infrastructures of the public sector as well as of companies and private individuals must be comprehensively defended in order to protect personal and intangible rights.
Fending off extremists
Extremist and terrorist violence must be combated in advance and prevented wherever possible. To this end, we want to strengthen prevention and deradicalization in the fight against extremism and terrorism across Europe and promote the development of joint strategies. We also consistently call for measures to combat disinformation and the influence of actors from third countries in a joint and coordinated manner.
Control security agencies
We want the European security agencies to be subject to parliamentary control. The European Parliament must take on this task.
Intensive examination of Schengen accession candidates
We make sure that new candidates for accession to the Schengen area meet all security-related criteria in a sustainable manner before they are admitted - such as the rule of law and a determined fight against corruption, organized crime and terrorism. For us, there are no compromises. Immediate sanction mechanisms must be in place in the event of subsequent non-compliance.
Better coordination of European civil protection
We want to ensure that Europe can respond better and more efficiently to disasters. Early warning, reporting and situation centers must be expanded. We are committed to ensuring that the member states maintain certain contingents for emergency situations - such as flood disasters, earthquakes or forest fires - that can be deployed quickly throughout Europe. This involves special equipment and devices, including personnel and emergency medical teams. Through intelligent division of labor, we can save taxpayers' money, reduce unnecessary bureaucracy and increase efficiency at the same time. Nevertheless, it must be ensured that the final decision on national capacities remains with the member states. It therefore makes sense to expand European capacity in addition.
Prevent the tightening of gun laws
We rely on the personal responsibility of citizens who legally own weapons. We have one of the strictest gun laws in the world in Germany and consider this to be sufficient. Further tightening through European legislation would be disproportionate. At the same time, however, more must be done to combat illegal gun ownership.
Europe as a border guard
Europe is far from prepared for refugee crises like the one in fall 2015. We want to change that. We continue to strive for a European solution to the migration issue. If we want to prevent a permanent return to barriers at our internal borders, we must work together to protect our external borders. This requires the establishment of a joint European border guard. FRONTEX needs a major update.
Strengthening European border protection
We want to massively strengthen European external border protection. FRONTEX should take over the coordination here and be massively expanded. The member states should no longer have to take the lead in external border protection, but only provide more support. We are pushing for a joint European border protection unit consisting of contingents provided by the member states. It must be able to monitor the entire external border of the EU in a meaningful way. In addition to sufficient personnel, it must also have the necessary modern equipment.
Reforming asylum and refugee policy
Asylum, refugee protection and subsidiary protection in the event of civil wars always mean temporary residence. For this, we need a reliable entry and exit system that ensures consistent
Refoulement at the EU's external border and asylum procedures outside Europe. It must be recognized that the Dublin Agreement has failed. We reject the forced redistribution of asylum seekers to all EU member states. The classification of countries of origin into safe and unsafe third countries must be carried out jointly. Asylum procedures should primarily be carried out at the EU's external borders within days in EU institutions. To this end, applicants must be accommodated in decent housing near the EU's external borders. The entire financing and implementation must be carried out by the EU. Maximum consideration must be given to the interests of the inhabitants of the border areas.
Separate asylum and immigration policy
We want a clear separation of immigration and asylum. Irrespective of asylum procedures, the EU must pursue an independent immigration policy. The nation states must be solely responsible for its implementation. The de facto stay at an EU external border due to irregular migration must not be a preferential criterion for regular migration. On the contrary, unsuccessful, irregular migration must be a reason for exclusion from regular migration. Targeted immigration migration must be based on national and European interests. The ability to integrate is also a decisive criterion in cultural terms. The unrestricted free movement of persons and freedom of establishment in the EU should only apply to immigrants after naturalization and a stay of at least 7 years in the receiving country without criminal record. To this end, citizenship law must be harmonized between the members of the European Union. We want to expand the European Blue Card model for qualified workers.
Conclude repatriation agreements with countries of origin of refugees
We want the EU to promote the conclusion of so-called EU readmission agreements in order to make individual national readmission agreements superfluous. In return, the countries of origin of refugees should be given a privileged role in European development cooperation. Payments for behaviour that complies with international law in the countries of origin should only be considered as an exception and care should be taken to ensure that EU funds do not trickle away there, but flow to reliable aid organizations on the ground. Clear sanctions should be imposed on non-cooperative countries. If necessary, all means permitted under international law should be exhausted.
Regaining control over sea rescue
Europe must ensure that thousands of people do not drown in the Mediterranean every year. To this end, it must be ensured that sea boarding is prevented, that, if necessary, immediate repatriation is carried out at sea by the EU's external border guards and that sanctions are imposed on neighboring states that do not cooperate. Institutionalized civil sea rescue must be integrated into the command structures of the EU's external border guard or prevented. Sovereign tasks must be carried out by sovereign authorities.
Enforce readmission agreements with Maghreb states
We are pursuing the goal of returning migrants intercepted in the Mediterranean to the nearby North African coast. Enabling illegal departures or onward journeys must have noticeable consequences for those countries that do not prevent this and must not lead to the EU paying out billions. The possibility of repatriation under international law, even against the will of the country concerned, must be examined.
Fighting traffickers through European asylum centers in Africa
We want to create legal entry routes into the EU for people who we need in Europe and who want to integrate here. Asylum applications must be able to be made and examined before crossing into Europe. Illegal immigration and the inhumane business model of people smugglers must be stopped. Europe should support the countries of origin in their border protection activities in a spirit of partnership.
Europe as a global player
We FREIE WÄHLER want to take a much more European approach to the foreign policy challenges of the 21st century. We want Germany and Europe to become involved in global politics as reliable partners and honest brokers. With a peaceful, predictable and value-based European foreign policy, we want to play a responsible role in shaping coexistence on our planet. Securing peace is our most important goal. Diplomacy must always take priority in conflicts.
Our compass must be our commitment to the right of peoples to self-determination and the guarantee of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. It is important for us to counteract climate change internationally, to fight hunger in the world, to ensure resource security and, in particular, energy supply. We must also guarantee access to the raw materials that Europe needs at world market prices. However, we do not want to go it alone in foreign policy, but always in close coordination with our allies in democratic constitutional states.
Living a foreign policy based on values
As the EU, we want to stand up for democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights worldwide. States that do not make serious efforts in this regard must be sanctioned with graduated economic measures. At the same time, however, an approach must always be found to interact with authoritarian regimes and not completely cut off channels of communication. Small EU member states in particular should take on dedicated tasks and roles from the EU.
Presenting a united front internationally
We are committed to greater European unity in international politics and in international organizations. We therefore support the strengthening of the European External Action Service (EEAS) in order to coordinate the 27 different foreign policies of the EU member states as effectively as possible. As part of our aim to reduce the number of EU Commissioners, all areas of action with foreign policy responsibilities should be brought together under one person. In particular, enlargement, neighborhood and development cooperation policies should be placed under the umbrella of the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
Achieving more together in foreign policy
We clearly reject protectionism, isolationism and nationalism. In terms of foreign policy, we need more rather than less dialog and cooperation. Movements within the UN or the OSCE that oppose Western values must be closely monitored and consistently prevented.
Strengthening Europe as a force for peace
We want politics and diplomacy to take precedence over military intervention, but we do not rule it out. We have learned from Srebrenica, Sarajevo and Rwanda, among others, and want a defensive human rights policy. We are committed to upholding human rights and religious freedom in the world.
Maintaining the Franco-German partnership
Whenever Germany and France have acted in close alliance and unity, the crises in Europe have been overcome. This is why we want to once again attach the greatest importance to the Franco-German tandem in European policy and strive for close coordination of common goals with our French friends. This must be institutionalized and established on a permanent basis and go far beyond visits and friendship meetings. Mutual support, including in dealing with points of domestic political conflict, must not be excluded.
Continuing the German-Polish partnership
In view of the difficult shared history and historical responsibility, we want to further strengthen the partnership between Germany and Poland. It is the foundation of our joint reconciliation. In particular, we want to expand the dialog between our civil societies. Possible prejudices or grievances, such as in the areas of the rule of law, women's rights and minorities, must be clearly addressed. The focus must be on joint solutions.
Maintaining partnership relations with the United Kingdom
The withdrawal of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the EU is painful. An economic power comparable to the twenty smallest economies among the EU member states has been lost to our single market. We must respect the people's decision and therefore look for new ways to reconcile our partnership relations at a high level. We want this to happen fairly and without special concessions to the United Kingdom. In the long term, the aim must be to rejoin the EU.
Expanding transatlantic relations
We want to maintain and expand our good partnership relations with North American countries, particularly the USA, on an equal footing. We will work to ensure that this relationship is based more strongly on mutual respect. Even greater cooperation is particularly important when it comes to issues that affect Europe in its immediate environment - as has been the case since the Russian attack on Ukraine.
Stabilizing crisis regions
Regime changes in recent years have plunged many countries into chaos. Europe must act as a mediator and advisor here with a reliable foreign policy. We are pursuing the stabilization of the affected areas. To this end, we want to use the existing European contacts in the civil societies of the affected countries to support them on the path to a free order. We cannot and do not want to impose our values such as democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights from above; they must be lived from below.
Don't let Russia win
The Putin-Russian war of aggression against Ukraine must not and will not succeed. Ukraine alone determines the conditions for peace. The sanctions against Russia must be implemented and regularly evaluated. Evasion of sanctions must be consistently punished.
become a reality. We advocate that the EU promote political and social change in Russia much more intensively and intelligently. Russia is culturally and geographically part of Europe and its people must be given a perspective based on our values in the medium term. This, combined with Ukraine's accelerated accession to NATO and the prospect of EU membership, must be a sign to the Russians that their development must be oriented towards the West in their own interests and must proceed without Putin. To this end, the dialog with civil society in Russia in particular must not be allowed to break down, despite the current major differences. Regular, organized exchange is important to us because it is the only way to achieve progress. At the same time, we must not allow diplomatic channels to break down so that we are not dependent on mediation by third countries. In particular, non-G7 EU countries should take on this foreign policy task.
Further developing relations with Ukraine
We support Ukraine in restoring its full territorial integrity. We are committed to ensuring that Europe supports the country in strengthening its internal stability and its social development on the basis of our fundamental European values. It goes without saying that the fight against corruption in particular is essential for deepening cooperation. Financial support is linked to reform efforts. Stronger ties with Europe must be promoted at all levels - including through increased exchange at the level of the civilian population and administrative structures.
Acting confidently towards China
A new China strategy is needed that significantly reduces dependence on China, especially in the economy. The EU must put itself back in a position to criticize the Chinese government without having to fear disproportionate economic losses. The implementation of a clearly perceptible diversification of supply chains and risk minimization ("derisking") must be started immediately.
Supporting independent Taiwan
A clear commitment to an independent Taiwan is required in terms of democracy and international law, but also for reasons of supply chain control. Diplomatic relations must be established and expanded. The people of Taiwan must be allowed to decide their own future in freedom. Potential Chinese encroachments on Taiwan are unacceptable and must have consequences.
Intensify global gateway initiative
China is striving to expand its influence worldwide through economic initiatives. The Global Gateway Initiative must be intensified as a counter-model to the Belt and Road Initiative, and the EU must become an attractive alternative to Chinese investors.
Clearly naming Chinese human rights violations
Offers should be made to the Chinese democracy movement; humanitarian admission programs for those persecuted by the Chinese regime (e.g. from Hong Kong) should be intensified for reasons of principle and in order to gain better access to insider know-how. Strengthened sanctions against those responsible for human rights violations (Magnitsky Act) should be implemented. Persecution, "re-education" and the cultural genocide of the Uyghurs must be identified by the EU Parliament and products from Uyghur forced labor must be banned from the EU domestic market.
Sanction the Iranian regime
The Iranian regime is not a reliable partner for the international community. A nuclear-free Iran must be ensured by all means. The Iranian regime is spreading its expansionist policies throughout the entire Middle East region and is responsible for wars and terror with hundreds of thousands of victims. The EU must react to this with consistency and severity and ensure that sanctions also noticeably weaken the regime.
Support Israel
We see the existence and security of Israel as the central mission of our policy. We stand unwaveringly by Israel's side, even in difficult times. Germany has a special historical responsibility towards the State of Israel. Israel's existence and security must be permanently guaranteed. Israel deserves our support at all levels. Likewise, the people in Gaza and the West Bank must be given a lasting situation worth living in. The neighboring Arab countries must be held accountable. We condemn in the strongest possible terms the terror planned by Hamas against the Israeli civilian population with direct support from Iran. Anyone who abducts people to use them as human shields against the army, or even murders them, must never again assume a political role in the Middle East. Currently, financial support for the Palestinian territories must be cut off completely unless it can be ensured that Hamas does not benefit from it directly or indirectly. The terror financier Iran must also be shown clear limits.
Deepening cooperation with regional alliances
We want to intensify cooperation with the African Union and the Arab League. We need joint strategies and joint action against the threat to freedom posed by international terrorism and in dealing with unstable countries with a view to our own security.
Getting the Africa strategy off the ground
We want to deepen cooperation with our southern neighboring continent through a joint strategy. In doing so, we want to help implement the African Union's Agenda 2063 in order to contribute to the socio-economic transformation of the African continent. However, we also want to provide direct support on the ground so that the local populations can develop sustainable and stable structures. We must counteract the influence exerted by Chinese and Russian actors, for example through economic development programs and our own information campaigns that "promote" the EU in order to refute contrary representations.
Securing access to raw materials
Based on the European raw materials strategy, we want to organize European access to rare earths, industrial minerals and fossil raw materials for energy production in partnership with the corresponding countries in Africa, Asia and the Americas. For Europe, this is primarily about minimizing risk and diversifying supply chains and becoming less dependent on the Chinese market in particular. However, the overriding goal must be to reuse raw materials in the cycle and promote alternatives to fossil fuels. To this end, research and development of recycling methods must be strengthened. Protected areas in the Arctic and Antarctic must be preserved and their inviolability ensured.
Europe as a development aid worker
Everyone has a right to their homeland and must be given the opportunity to live there safely and peacefully in full self-determination. However, with around 100 million people currently on the run, this goal is becoming increasingly distant. The causes of displacement are manifold and by no means limited to armed conflicts. We are therefore concerned with ensuring sustainable, prosperous and democratic development based on the rule of law, increased climate protection, good governance and securing livelihoods in all regions of the world.
For us FREIE WÄHLER, a properly implemented sustainable development policy would be a good contribution to a peaceful and secure world. It removes the breeding ground for the radicalization of people and eliminates the reasons for flight. It prevents extremism, terrorism and the desperate search of many people for better living conditions. The development policy to date has not been convincing. In particular, the practice of European taxpayers' money flowing to strategic rivals of the EU - such as the BRICS states - and corrupt regimes must end. As a consequence, the EU's current development policy should be completely replaced by programs in economic and educational cooperation with other countries. Also with the aim of strengthening value- and rights-based education in the target countries.
Living up to our responsibility as donor countries
UN aid organizations such as the UNHCR suffer from chronic underfunding. Promised payments are regularly delayed. The precarious situations in many refugee camps are a reason for many of the people accommodated there to flee to Europe. We are therefore in favor of continuous funding from the EU. The aim must be more planning security through a separate budget at United Nations level. In addition to the immediate provision of food, medicine, shelter and clothing, humanitarian aid on the ground must also include intensive educational opportunities. Only in this way can young people in particular be offered long-term prospects of either returning to their home country or being given a realistic chance of legal immigration and a promising start in another country.
Invest 0.7 percent of our economic output
We will work to ensure that Germany and the other EU member states permanently adhere to the internationally agreed target of allocating 0.7% of our gross domestic product to development aid. These funds are an important investment in our security because they prevent refugees from fleeing to Europe and radicalization. We are striving to increase funding for development cooperation at EU level. Together, Europe has a responsibility to take decisive action to combat the causes of flight.
Coordinating development policy
For historical reasons, the individual EU member states have special relationships with certain regions of the world. In European development policy, we want to ensure that the member states and their civil societies use these links to focus their development policy activities on these regions. Together with better coordination of development policy at EU level, we want to achieve meaningful synergies and a more efficient use of funds through this division of labor.
Europe as a defense community
The rapidly changing global security situation, particularly with regard to the Russian war of aggression, expansionist tendencies of the Chinese leadership and religiously motivated regional wars, especially in Islamic states, present Europe with new challenges. Stronger relations with all democratic states in the world are essential in parallel to the focus on transatlantic relations.
We FREIE WÄHLER are committed to making the EU more independent in terms of security policy in order to live up to its increasing international responsibility. It must become an independent, strong and reliable partner of peaceful states.
We need a common European security and defense policy that is willing and able to formulate its own interests and assert them when necessary. We advocate a close alliance with our European neighbors in order to establish an independent defense alliance with its own army. A united Europe can significantly strengthen our interests and our fundamental values within NATO. However, we are striving for close European cooperation in the field of defense, which should not duplicate the NATO structure, but rather complement it. In this context, we welcome the NATO membership of Sweden and Finland. This will strengthen the role of the EU in NATO. A strong Europe in NATO can meet the USA on an equal footing and must - also in line with the broad will of the American people - relieve the USA of some of its alliance tasks.
Advancing "Permanent Structured Cooperation"
A good six years after the signing of the PESCO agreement on "Permanent Structured Cooperation" and the course set by most EU member states for a common European defense in 2017, progress must be assessed. This initiative urgently needs to be filled with life and expanded quickly. To this end, we want to create a formal body of European defense ministers at European level and install a committee on defense issues in the European Parliament.
Creating a European army
We want to build a European army to complement the national armies. This army should primarily perform common tasks outside the EU territory and leverage synergies internally. A European army should be placed under the full control of the European Parliament; it must approve future joint operations and missions of European armed forces. In addition, a European Parliamentary Commissioner for the Armed Forces with responsibilities comparable to those of the German Armed Forces Commissioner must take up his work.
Establishing the operational capability of the Bundeswehr
The operational capability of the Bundeswehr must be ensured. We vehemently stand by our membership in NATO and demand a noticeable increase in Germany's contribution, including permanent funding for the Bundeswehr of well over 2 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). This demand also applies to all other EU states. We want every participating EU member state to make a contribution to the common defense commensurate with its size. The target of at least 2 percent of GDP must be consistently implemented for this purpose. Failure to meet the target will result in financial sanctions.
of the EU against the member state in question up to 2 percent of GDP. For Germany, the 2% target must be secured in each individual year, regardless of the special fund.
Developing training units together
We want to intensify the joint basic, advanced and further training of multinational units in Europe. The harmonization of qualifications and their mutual recognition is a basic prerequisite for joint operations. As a strong alliance partner, we believe Germany has a duty to assume a leading role in the training of multinational command and control forces. This will require even more political will to act in the future.
Organize joint armament projects
Armaments projects are becoming significantly more complex and cost-intensive, making it increasingly difficult for individual states within the EU to carry them alone. Joint armaments projects at European level enable significant savings through higher quantities and lower overhead costs. The aim must be to reduce the number of different weapon systems, also in order to facilitate military coordination and cooperation. Shared systems also ensure this necessary interoperability and significantly reduce the logistical effort involved in joint operations. We therefore want to intensify "Permanent Structured Cooperation" as quickly as possible and transfer armaments projects to the European level. Since the war in Ukraine, there has been a clearly increased willingness to do this in the EU. One example of this is the ASAP regulations, which are intended to strengthen the European arms industry. These must be further strengthened, intensified and, above all, accelerated. Joint research and development in the field of armaments must be promoted, also in order to strengthen the EU as a location and thus make it more militarily independent in the event of a crisis.
Introducing joint procurement
The Bundeswehr's current procurement system is not suitable for meeting quantitative and qualitative armaments requirements in a timely manner. For decades, attempts have been made to solve the problem with cosmetic improvements. A considerably larger share of joint procurement is necessary in order to save costs and optimize processes. We therefore want to shift procurement to the European level. This can save considerable costs and optimize processes. We support the goal at EU level (see EDIRPA regulation) to promote joint procurement.
Installing European cyber defense
The improvement of the instruments for countering hybrid threats to the EU, particularly with regard to activities in connection with cyber attacks and information manipulation, must be regularly reviewed. Cyber attacks must be combated decisively in the military, government and private sector. That is why we want to establish a joint European Union cyber defense center. In particular, it should guarantee the security of our critical infrastructures. This includes the supply of electricity and drinking water, which are essential for the state community and for maintaining public order, healthcare and the economic or social well-being of the population. It should work closely with the NATO Cyber Defense Center in Tallinn. The EU must be given the necessary competencies for this.
Protecting sea and trade routes
Our common European foreign trade depends on safe sea and trade routes. Piracy and interstate conflicts pose a problem in this respect. The corona pandemic in particular demonstrated the fragility of international trade routes and our dependence on globally supplied products. We are therefore committed to greater security on sea and trade routes. To this end, the EU and NATO must form international alliances with third countries. A threat to international waters, such as that posed by China in the South China Sea, must be clearly countered.
Reliable framework conditions create quality of life. In order to be able to guarantee the most important basic needs for the people in our country - from food security to affordable energy and healthcare close to home at the highest level to the preservation of social peace - we rely on the common strength of Europe. To this end, we Free Democrats want to agree on common rules in all member states that will improve the lives of local citizens and thus create a home worth living in for all people in Europe in the long term.
We are committed to ensuring that dependencies on countries outside the EU for key goods such as food and medical products are reduced and that these global dependencies are not built up any further. If goods are imported into the EU, they must either have been produced to demonstrably comparable process standards or the corresponding cost advantage should be offset by import duties.
Our domestic agriculture and small and medium-sized enterprises must have fair competitive opportunities. People in rural areas in particular must not be left behind so that everyone in their home region can look positively to the future, both professionally and privately. Rural areas and their cultural landscape must be strengthened.
Europe as an agricultural area
Affordable and high-quality food is the basis for a healthy, satisfied and high-performing society. The main task of our agriculture is to provide the population with a secure supply of high-quality food. Agriculture must be enabled to produce this food. This includes the professional approval of fertilizers and pesticides.
Laws affecting this area must be subject to particularly sensitive impact assessments. In addition to food production, farmers also perform valuable economic, social and environmental tasks for rural areas and our homeland. When it comes to competition for land for infrastructure, residential development, the establishment of industry or the further expansion of renewable energies, agricultural land must be regarded as an equal "protected good for feeding humans and animals" alongside other protected goods.
A unified Europe needs a unified legal basis. If the European agricultural economy is to be preserved, it needs protection against dumping standards at the EU's external borders through customs duties. These could replace the current single farm payments. In the interests of a sustainable
In a circular economy, nutrients from human excrement must not be incinerated, but should be used efficiently alongside farm manure and imported mineral fertilizers.
We strictly reject legally prescribed fertilization below the necessary plant requirements. Setting aside valuable arable land without replacement does not benefit nature, but instead promotes hunger in the world. Plant protection products that have been tested and approved by the EU authorities must also be usable in Germany. A German special path is also detrimental to security of supply and product quality.
Ensuring harmony between ecology, economy and social issues
For us, sustainability means a balanced triad of ecology, economy and social balance for the farming operations. In order to be ecologically successful, circular economy, resource conservation and efficiency are just as necessary as minimizing environmental impacts. The most important goal for our population is to ensure food security even in times of crisis. In addition to food security, the domestic agricultural sector can also contribute to the supply of renewable energies and renewable raw materials. We want to achieve these goals by supporting innovations in technology, breeding and cultivation methods in a forward-looking way. In order to ensure food security for the population in the long term, European farmers must be protected from imports from third countries, including through import tariffs if necessary.
Valuing agriculture's contribution to CO reduction2
We recognize the enormous upfront efforts of agriculture in saving carbon dioxide. We therefore reject the unfair allocation of CO2 emissions between economic sectors. This is the only way to ensure food security, food quality and health now and in times of crisis.
Maintaining the security of supply and diversity of companies
First and foremost, farmers should ensure food security with healthy, high-quality food. In addition to this main task, domestic agriculture also fulfills a number of other existential services for our community. Without a diverse agricultural sector, the cultural landscapes that have been created over generations and that make our homeland so liveable cannot be preserved. These special social services, especially in structurally disadvantaged areas, must be adequately rewarded by the EU in the future. The same applies to the demand for services that society also places on farms. It is by no means sufficient to continue to merely reimburse part of the additional costs incurred. There is no other way to maintain the diversity of agriculture in Europe. We call for the first pillar of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) to be maintained and expanded in order to compensate for existing competitive disadvantages compared to imported goods with lower standards. Furthermore, extensive environmental system services already provided under the second pillar must be adequately remunerated. In the case of payments from the second pillar, we call for the numerous highly bureaucratic measures to be replaced by a few, technically sensible measures in order to actually achieve measurable improvements for agricultural diversity.
Streamlining European agricultural law
European agricultural policy has developed into an ineffective bureaucratic monster. The over- regulation does not create any advantage, but instead leads to an increasingly rapid demise of farms in Europe and Germany. There are many things that well-trained farmers could do in a much more sustainable and meaningful way for nature, the environment, biodiversity, CO2 reduction and the environment.
food safety with high quality at affordable prices than blanket EU regulations can. A number of regulations and directives should be scrapped without replacement, as they do not do justice to regional circumstances. We call for the introduction of quality management with impact assessment for European agricultural policy.
Avoid competitive disadvantages compared to third countries
Common EU agricultural policy rules are needed to prevent Germany from imposing ever higher process standards on itself than those prescribed by EU regulations. The resulting loss of competitiveness leads to the migration of German production abroad. Another important element will be origin labeling for both primary products and the main components of processed products.
Strengthen producers vis-à-vis the food retail trade
We are committed to creating new framework conditions for cooperation between agriculture and retail that establish a balance between the two partners. In Germany, 84 percent of the food retail trade (LEH) is dominated by four groups. This oligopoly abuses its market power over agricultural producers, producer groups, dairies and butchers in order to push purchase prices below the actual production costs and generate higher consumer prices. Through long-term trading partnerships with the local food industry, food retailers should ensure security of supply and regionality of food. Unfair trading practices, such as payment terms after the goods have been sold, shelf rents or the forced return of unsold fresh produce, must be prevented throughout the EU.
Putting a stop to the regulatory frenzy
The EU is overburdening farmers and smaller businesses in the food industry with bureaucratic requirements. These businesses need their valuable working time to ensure the supply of food to the population. Administrative tasks must be reduced. Controls under national and European law that affect the same area must be merged and controls must be reduced to a healthy, comprehensible level overall.
Advancing digitalization in rural areas
To enable digitalization in agriculture, we are calling for sufficient network coverage with 5G or at least LTE mobile communications on every patch of agricultural land in Europe. The same applies to the connection to a fiber optic network literally "to the last milk churn". In the area of "smart farming", both in the field and in the barn, it must be ensured that the data always remains the property of the users and that they retain control over their own data at all times. Correction signals for satellite navigation (RTK) must be made available to farmers free of charge. In the field of sensor technology, control technology and software, compatible interfaces and standards must be ensured across all providers. We want to promote user-related research and development.
Introducing clear indications of origin
We are in favor of a future Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) in which regional geographical origin is mandatory. We want to introduce this mandatory labeling both for products and for value-determining ingredients in processed foods. In the case of animal products, the countries of birth, rearing, fattening, slaughter and processing must be identified.
work must be clearly marked. For Germany, for example, this would be five times "D". The country of production is also mandatory for plant-based products such as fruit, vegetables, cereals and oils. Regional crafts and direct marketers should be exempt from the strict declaration requirements. Regional labels should also be used. In this way, we want to highlight the added value of our multifaceted European agriculture.
Appreciating food
The greatest food waste occurs in the field due to pests, fungi or EU standards. It is these standards that prevent some fruit and vegetables from reaching the supermarket shelves in the first place. Another reason is the minimum shelf life dates, which lead to food that is still fit for consumption being disposed of prematurely. We are calling for effective and proven active ingredients to be tested and approved so that as little food as possible spoils in the field and in storage. Shelf life information should be given a recommendatory character. An addition such as: "This food is often good for longer!" could be used.
Securing the livelihoods of cutter fishermen
Despite the generally improved state of fish stocks in the North Sea and Atlantic, self-sufficiency in fish within the EU has steadily declined over the last decade. Currently, only 30 percent of the fish consumed in the EU is caught there. The EU must return to a model in which the production of and self-sufficiency in primary foodstuffs are genuine basic principles. The so-called "EU Action Plan" with its planned fishing bans in all marine protected areas endangers the existence of fishermen.
Further develop aquatic species and habitats
In view of the critical eel stock situation, measures should be taken with reference to the European Eel Regulation to increase silver eel escapement and allow the sustainable use of eel. To this end, it is necessary in most river basins to implement stocking measures to support the population and compensate for the current recruitment deficit. At the same time, measures must be taken to reduce mortality caused by hydropower plants and humans. However, we expressly warn against blanket stocking bans or year-round closed seasons for the whole of Germany. In view of the many reasons for the decline in the population, a single regulation of the fishing industry would not do justice to the protection of the eel and would possibly also have strong negative effects on the overall population. Furthermore, the specific conditions in the respective river basin do not allow for "off-the-peg" measures. The further development of eel stock management should take place in dialog with the fishermen concerned.
Protecting the traditional fishing industry
In addition to river fishing, pond farming also makes an important contribution to securing livelihoods and preserving our cultural landscape. We call for the active management of natural predators such as otters and cormorants, which have protected status. We therefore advocate an adaptation of the Habitats Directive at European level in order to expand the possibilities for sensible and operationally necessary removals.
Reducing wolf populations
We defend the ecological and cultural-historical contribution that pasture farming makes to our country. Due to the unchecked spread of the wolf population in Europe, not least
Due to a long outdated European Flora-Fauna-Habitat Directive, grazing is severely endangered. Wolves and bears are apex predators without natural enemies. The good conservation status of wolves is endangered neither in Europe nor in the world. They should therefore be removed from Annex 4 of the Habitats Directive. Regulation of wolf populations is the responsibility of the member states, which are called upon to set up appropriate active hunting of wolves. Wolves must be subject to regulated hunting, with a closed season during the rearing of pups. Wolves must be hunted during the rest of the year. They pose a considerable threat to livestock grazing, coastal protection, mountain pasture farming and diversity in the cultivated landscape.
Compensating for wolf kills
Any wolf attack on livestock and pets must be compensated by EU funds at the breeding value or market value over and above the fair market value. There must be no maximum limit (e.g. de minimis). The EU directive on the protection of livestock from predators explicitly excludes wolves. As long as the EU does not approve the regulated hunting of large carnivores, it must bear the costs of the otherwise unnecessary, wolf-repellent basic protective fencing and the damage caused by the breeding value. As long as an attack cannot be clearly attributed to a wolf, the burden of proof must be reversed. This means that the burden of proof lies with the authorities. We demand an end to the monopoly of the private Senckenberg Institute on wildlife monitoring and DNA analysis. All wildlife data paid for with public funds must be entered into an EU database and must be publicly accessible free of charge at all times.
Revise the Green Deal
The Green Deal is not climate-neutral and technology-neutral, but counterproductive in terms of CO2 savings. Any resulting reduction in agricultural production leads to increased land requirements elsewhere, more emissions and less favorable environmental effects. Agricultural land, which is becoming increasingly scarce, must be used more intensively, which is why all Green Deal requirements that lead to a reduction in harvest volumes are out of the question.
Expand "farm to fork" strategy ("from farm to fork")
We reject all EU regulations that lead to production being relocated to non-European countries. A reduction in plant protection products is in everyone's interest, but a blanket quantity target, as in the "Sustainable Use Regulation - SUR", is against common sense. We therefore call for the promotion of biological-technical research in order to achieve the reduction of plant protection products without reducing or jeopardizing the harvest volume. The Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) should only apply to industrial operations and must not be applied to livestock farming. The Nature Restoration Act (NRL) must not lead to a reduction in yields. A blanket restriction of appropriate production leads to more hunger in the world. We are aware of our overall responsibility towards the constantly growing world population and therefore call for a sustainable increase in production on existing agricultural land.
Europe as an environmental and climate protector
We FREIE WÄHLER are committed to the protection of natural resources in line with the sustainability goals of the United Nations in Europe and the principles of the Paris Climate Agreement. This includes the long-term and responsible use of natural resources without damaging the environment or the needs of future generations.
The preservation and promotion of biodiversity and the protection of natural ecosystems include the promotion of human rights, justice and the participation of all people, as well as a fair and efficient economic system that promotes prosperity and innovation without neglecting the environment or social aspects.
Making EU emissions trading socially responsible
We want the EU emissions trading instrument to be designed in a socially responsible way without jeopardizing prosperity. Some of the revenue from emissions trading should be returned to citizens, for example in the form of a climate bonus or a reduction in other taxes or levies. Emissions trading should also promote measures for structural change, for example with a fund for phasing out coal or an innovation fund for climate-friendly technologies. Revenue from emissions trading should also be used for public investment in the energy-efficient refurbishment of buildings or the expansion of local public transport. We therefore firmly reject the extension of EU emissions trading to buildings and transport, which has already been decided, and call for this decision to be withdrawn. It is an attempt to make electricity-powered heat pumps and e-cars mandatory for private households without direct bans and regulations via massive cost increases. For millions of households, these burdens are almost impossible to shoulder. We reject all attempts by the state - whether at EU or federal level - to dictate to citizens how they should heat their houses and apartments with ever new requirements, regulations and levies. We call for a moratorium on new laws that impose new requirements or costs for heating and mobility.
Advancing the European energy transition
We want to shape the energy transition in Germany and Europe as a socially responsible project that does not jeopardize prosperity. Security of supply, economic efficiency, affordability, technological openness and environmentally friendly solutions should be the cornerstones of a sustainable energy transition. Wherever possible, electricity should be produced where it is consumed. We are committed to ensuring that citizens share in the profits. This keeps the added value local. An efficient power grid is also needed.
Secure energy supply
We are in favor of international cooperation on energy issues. We want to support the performance and competitiveness of German companies in the energy transition at an international level. Policymakers in Germany and Europe need a more open approach to technology. A secure and cost-effective energy supply is a peace-building project, an ethical imperative and an economic and ecological necessity. Germany should not go it alone at the expense of its European partners and against their declared will. The priority must be to ensure that the base load can be secured as soon as possible in a climate-neutral manner, without CO2 emissions and nuclear waste. In addition to the environmentally friendly expansion of renewable energy generation, we want to further expand biomass-based energy supply systems. Base load-capable power plants as well as research, development and application in the field of hydrogen
and the further scientific development of nuclear power and nuclear fusion options represent indispensable potential for a climate-neutral energy supply. This not only secures almost inexhaustible energy sources, but also pioneering industries.
Expanding European hydrogen cooperation
We want to create a uniform European hydrogen infrastructure. Large quantities of hydrogen are needed to make a significant contribution to the environmentally and climate-friendly transformation of industrial production and mobility. With the help of hydrogen partnerships, we want to exploit the potential for our domestic industry. In addition to production and distribution, the partnerships must also focus on application technologies. In the Germany-France hydrogen axis in particular, we want to create an "Airbus for hydrogen".
Expanding the protection of the North Sea and Baltic Sea
We are committed to effective fisheries regulations at European level. We also want better promotion and development of sustainable fishing techniques and methods. Greater efforts must be made to ensure the sustainability of fish stocks and avoid overfishing. We are calling for the problem of munitions waste in the North Sea and Baltic Sea, which has been known for decades, to be resolved. These contaminated sites pose a major threat to shipping, people and the ecosystem. We call for the systematic recording and mapping of the seabed, safe salvage and proper disposal using environmentally friendly methods, as well as effective monitoring and management strategies for remaining contaminated sites. We call for more international cooperation on issues affecting our seas, as the seas are a common European asset.
Organizing the expansion of offshore wind farms
We want to drive forward the expansion of offshore wind power in step with the necessary grid expansion in Europe.
Maintaining clean European waters
Water bodies are an essential part of our livelihood. Their quality should therefore be ensured at the highest level. We are committed to making the fourth purification stage in wastewater treatment plants the standard throughout Europe. It can be used to filter out antibiotic residues, hormones and other bioactive substances as well as microplastic residues. The use and application of organic and inorganic fertilizers on agricultural land is important for food security. It should be done in a way that is gentle on groundwater, but efficient and plant-friendly. We know that the nitrate content in the leachate directly in the topsoil must be higher than 50 milligrams, otherwise plant cultivation is not possible.
Guarantee drinking water supply
Increasing water demand and contamination from old, dilapidated and leaking drinking water, wastewater and mixed water pipes pose major challenges. We are calling for sustainable water management that secures the water supply throughout Europe. Sustainable technologies and concepts to increase water availability should be developed. We support the development of a process that extracts drinking water from the sea and brings it to dry regions with the help of long-distance pipelines.
Implement climate adaptation measures
In Europe, droughts, dry periods and heavy rainfall events will have to be expected more frequently in the future. Efficient use of drinking water will be just as urgently required as additional water storage capacities. There is also a need to press ahead with the construction of rainwater retention systems. The expansion of settlements in floodplains and areas with a high water hazard must be avoided. Preventive measures such as the avoidance of greenhouse gases have top priority.
Promoting the circular economy
We advocate sustainable waste management to protect the environment and people's health. The entire use cycle of waste and its impact on people and the environment must be the focus in future. Waste prevention should be the primary goal. The circular economy in the EU should be promoted more strongly so that, among other things, raw materials can be recovered from waste. Thermal waste treatment should be further developed so that the energy generated from it can be provided in a climate-neutral way. Waste transportation and waste trade in Europe should be more strictly controlled and regulated. The illegal shipment of waste into and out of Europe should be more strictly sanctioned.
Reduce plastic waste
We are committed to significantly reducing the amount of plastic waste and improving the opportunities for complete material recycling. In doing so, we are not only focusing on the cleaning performance of wastewater treatment plants (end-of-pipe), but also on reducing the discharge of these pollutants through research and development in production and household appliances. While end-of-pipe technologies reduce environmental pollution through downstream measures without changing the production process itself, begin-of-pipe measures refer to strategies that prevent the creation of environmental pollution through the correct selection of resources or energy.
Balancing the use of water bodies
In view of the diverse demands on water bodies, a fair balance should be struck between the sometimes conflicting demands for use, based primarily on cooperation and not on regulatory law. Water available close to the surface primarily supplies plant roots with water and nutrients. Drinking water for humans, industry and commerce has different requirements in terms of quantity and quality. Drinking water extraction areas should be reduced to the necessary minimum. Conflicting objectives are greatest in the case of surface waters due to the diverse demands for their use. They are habitats for diverse flora and fauna with different requirements in terms of permeability, nutrient and food content. They also fulfill important functions for local recreation, tourism and as water reservoirs. As waterways, they serve as navigable rivers and canals for the resource-saving transportation of bulk goods and containers and are indispensable for an environmentally friendly transport and traffic system due to their climate- friendly effect. The EU Water Framework Directive must therefore be adapted to better meet the various objectives.
Preserving the environment and nature for future generations
We stand for the preservation of native species in the respective regions of Europe. This includes measures to preserve and create new natural habitats such as forests, moors, fields, meadows and bodies of water, e.g. by unsealing or revitalizing abandoned commercial and industrial sites. These habitats provide important ecosystem services.
services such as the storage of carbon, the regulation of the water balance and the provision of food and raw materials. Citizens must be better informed about the relevant man-made causes and consequences of biodiversity loss in Europe and be shown ways in which they can contribute to the protection of nature on their own responsibility. International cooperation and the political will to preserve biodiversity must be strengthened in Europe. However, the rights and interests of the local population must be taken into account.
Combating invasive fauna and flora
More emphasis must be placed on the preservation, maintenance and protection of typical regional flora and fauna. More measures must be taken and promoted to reduce and combat locally invasive species that threaten and endanger the existence of native and regionally typical flora and fauna, transmit diseases and reduce genetic diversity.
Valuing forest farmers
We support forest owners with their commercial forests, as they create considerable value in rural areas and make a major contribution to binding carbon dioxide in timber and replacing fossil fuels. Measures for the reforestation and sustainable management of forests and the conversion of forests into resilient mixed forests should be sensibly supported by the EU. Only maintenance, thinning and targeted forest conversion make forests sustainable and healthy. This reduces susceptibility to drought damage, pest infestation and weather influences. In addition, a healthy forest lowers the ambient temperature, protects against erosion and, on slopes and mountains, against avalanches and landslides.
Practicing urban climate adaptation
The climate of Europe's major cities is changing adversely. Urban developments should be implemented more sustainably in order to avoid land consumption and urban heating. Urban planning should increasingly provide "green lungs" as air conduits so that cool air is transported from forest areas and fields into the inner areas of urbanized areas. The networking of green infiltration and evaporation areas in urban areas should be implemented to a greater extent. Fine dust and pollutants should be bound, drained and filtered by greening facades and roofs. The excessive solar radiation in urban districts should be used for cooling with intelligent systems.
Introducing uniform animal welfare standards for the whole of Europe
Animal welfare in agriculture must not be reduced by displacing animal husbandry to non- European countries. The same husbandry standards must apply within the EU. National solo efforts must be prevented. We do not want any live animal transports of livestock for slaughter that cross external European borders. We advocate the preservation and expansion of regional slaughterhouses and a revision of the EU standards for these slaughterhouses in order to ensure the shortest possible animal transports. Slaughter on pasture must also be made easier.
Restrict animal testing across Europe
We are committed to ensuring that animal testing is kept to the necessary minimum in Europe as a research location. Whenever possible, preference should be given to cell culture methods and non-animal-based, patient-specific test methods.
Europe as a social union
We FREIE WÄHLER are a social political force and regard the welfare state as a great achievement and an important instrument for ensuring security, peace and justice in our society. For us, the provision of benefits and support in many areas, e.g. the family, support for the weaker members of society and accident and pension provision, are central building blocks of a functioning state. We will intervene to correct any shortcomings in the system.
What applies to Germany should also apply to Europe, because here too we demand minimum standards and criticize undesirable developments such as wage dumping, exploitation or social inequalities. At this point, we believe that Europe has a responsibility to take coordinating action. However, we reject a transfer of competence. Social legislation should remain with the member states.
Maintaining social systems as the responsibility of the member states
We are a force that has emerged from the municipalities. We therefore know that specific challenges can be solved most easily at the place where they arise. The member states differ in their structures, social systems and cultural characteristics. For this reason, we reject the transfer of national competences through common unemployment insurance and the transfer of competences in employment services or other social legislation. These should remain in the member states.
Preventing overloading of the social systems
We note with great concern that there has been a massive migration into our social systems in recent years. At some point, this will lead to massive cuts in benefits, for example in health insurance benefits or pensions, or to large increases in contributions for our citizens. In our view, the welfare state as we know and value it is at risk. We will therefore campaign at European level to limit this form of immigration.
Supporting social systems through integration
We are a party for all citizens. Urgent problems such as demographic change, the fragmentation of societies and the shortage of skilled workers are not being tackled decisively enough. We are not giving up on recipients of transfer payments, but rather see great potential in them. We want to actively support many people who are not yet or not yet sufficiently able to participate in social, societal and working life through a policy of demand and support. We are calling for a European pact to ensure cohesion both in the member states and in Europe.
Integrating refugees
We are aware that many immigrants who are currently resident in Germany will stay for the long term. For this reason, we want to promote the integration of immigrant skilled workers and the integration of other migrants into the labor market and society more intensively (e.g. through mandatory German and integration courses), but also demand mandatory integration services from those involved. This should be done independently of our demands for better border protection, repatriation or faster asylum procedures in order to avoid creating parallel societies in the long term, which pose a major threat to social peace.
Europe as a guarantor of gender equality
Equality between women and men is a common fundamental value of the European Union. The EU has committed itself to promoting the actual implementation of equal rights and eliminating existing disadvantages through various programs and legislation.
Statistics show that women are underrepresented in leadership positions in politics and business and still earn on average 16% less than men throughout the EU. The long-term consequences and effects on the standard of living of women or their pensions are foreseeable. Violence against women and girls has also not been effectively curbed within the EU, even though corresponding laws and punitive measures have been adopted by the EU.
We FREIE WÄHLER are therefore committed to ensuring that women's policy is further developed in the EU and also taken into account at international level in all types of cooperation.
Consistently enforce existing laws
Several pieces of legislation and agreements have been created by the EU to promote gender equality. We are committed to ensuring that these are reviewed and further developed through evaluation mechanisms and, where necessary, that sanctions are imposed for non-compliance. We can also envisage awards in the form of labels for particularly successful progress towards equality.
Achieving equal pay
The European Council adopted new regulations on pay transparency on April 24, 2023. The EU directive aims to combat pay discrimination and reduce the gender pay gap in the EU. Under the new rules, EU companies must publish information on the wages they pay and take action if their gender pay gap exceeds 5 percent. We advocate the creation of EU-wide standards, monitoring and more consistent implementation of sanctions for companies that do not comply with these laws and standards. The role and independence of equality bodies should also be strengthened.
Promoting women in management positions
Women are still underrepresented in certain professional areas of science, technology, business and politics. We FREIE WÄHLER are committed to programs and qualification measures that address this lack of women in these areas. The digital sector has a special role to play here. We FREIE WÄHLER are committed to ensuring that women have equal access to digital resources in the educational and professional fields. It is also important that care and nursing duties for children and relatives are shared by society in such a way that women are not prevented from working. We FREIE WÄHLER advocate flexible working time models, the expansion of childcare facilities and the promotion of fathers' participation in childcare. There must also be paid leave for family carers and the expansion of care places during family members' recovery periods.
Combating violence against women
In 2011, the EU signed the Istanbul Conventions and thereby committed itself to taking measures against violence against women and domestic violence and to supporting their implementation in the member states. The convention is a legally binding instrument that provides for measures to prevent violence, protect victims and punish perpetrators. We FREIE WÄHLER advocate continuous monitoring, evaluation and adaptation of measures to combat violence against women and girls. In particular, funding for programs and projects in this area must be increased.
Breaking down gender stereotypes
We FREIE WÄHLER support programs and measures that break down gender stereotypes and traditional role models in the media or in education and contribute to equal opportunities for men and women.
Strengthening international cooperation for women
Women are still disadvantaged in many areas of the world. They live in relationships of dependency on their husbands, are sometimes not allowed to pursue professional activities with appropriate remuneration, are oppressed or are exposed to social violence. We FREIE WÄHLER call for the EU to increase its influence at international level and to work to provide countries with the expertise to effectively implement gender equality and to support organizations and programmes with this goal.
Europe as a health guarantor
We FREIE WÄHLER want to maintain social and health care that is close to the people and therefore also close to their lives. One of the greatest challenges of our time, demographic change, must be tackled through open discourse in society and by promoting innovative solutions.
Health is our greatest asset. In the changing political and social structures, we stand for maintaining the "openness" of communication with our citizens. In the digital age, despite the targeted use of data, we must not lose sight of data security. Individual patient health data must be protected.
In a time of crisis, people need security above all else. That is why we are committed to maintaining social and health care structures at a regional level.
Maintaining healthcare close to home
We firmly believe that the coordination, structuring and organization of healthcare belongs in the regions. Local decision-makers can assess the needs much better. This is why we want to avoid an expansion of the EU's competencies in the healthcare sector.
Respecting human rights in healthcare
Healthcare from birth to the end of life must be provided with respect for human dignity. This is why sensitive issues such as violence in the delivery room must be addressed,
The social and political debate in Europe should focus on violence in care and working conditions in the social and healthcare sectors.
Do not jeopardize vaccination readiness through coercion
Vaccinations are one of the most important preventive measures available in the healthcare system. With their help, many diseases in Europe have been pushed back. For this success story to continue, effective vaccination advice from GPs must be further strengthened. Compulsory vaccination would seriously damage the public's trust in the healthcare system. We reject such considerations.
Preventing a shortage of skilled workers in the healthcare sector
Professional qualifications acquired in Europe in the care, social and education sectors must include the same training standards. We are committed to ensuring that every professional qualification obtained in Europe is equally recognized in every member state.
Preparing the healthcare system for crises and disasters
The coronavirus pandemic has pushed the healthcare systems of the EU member states to their limits. We want to achieve a centralized review of political decisions during the pandemic, which must be scientifically sound and independent. In this way, we want to gain insights to improve pandemic prevention and control in the future. There is no doubt that the member states need to work together to protect and safeguard the population, but also to maintain federalism in crisis and disaster management. Action must focus on protecting and improving health while respecting fundamental and human rights and ensuring equal access to modern and efficient healthcare for all Europeans. The sovereignty, competencies and decision-making powers of the member states should be retained when an international WHO pandemic treaty is concluded.
Strengthening health promotion and prevention
We want to make progress in the fight against widespread diseases such as HIV and malaria. We also want to achieve a reduction in damage to health, e.g. through drug use. To achieve this, it is necessary to identify problems and develop creative solutions. This is why project funding is needed at European level for health and social aspects.
Europe as an educational area
Our younger generations were born into a united Europe. Open borders, a common market and European exchange have been part of their lives from the very beginning. They must be able to maintain and shape these achievements. We need their passion to carry the European idea forward. Because we want the children and young people of today to become the committed and responsible citizens of tomorrow.
In order to ensure a good education for young people in particular and thus guarantee a positive awareness of Europe from the outset, we FREIE WÄHLER are committed to equal educational standards. We must learn with and from each other, especially in school education. Our goal is to ensure that everyone receives a good school education.
Committed to continuing the EU Youth Strategy
We want to strengthen European youth policy and improve the dialog between European youth and European policy. We want to create more equal opportunities for young people in education and on the labor market and encourage the younger generation to get involved in society on a voluntary basis.
Fighting youth unemployment together
The opportunities for young people in Europe to find work vary greatly. While we have almost full employment in Germany, in other countries an entire generation is growing up without the prospect of a secure and adequate income. We do not want to leave young people in the lurch. We are promoting our tried-and-tested, crisis-proof dual training system in other EU member states and also want to improve the mobility of young people in Europe. We in Germany are suffering from a high shortage of skilled workers in many sectors and can use this potential to our advantage.
Supporting European youth organizations
We want to strengthen European youth associations. They should provide young people with knowledge and skills in European politics. Strengthened in this way, young people can play an active role in shaping Europe.
Revise European voluntary services
We want to continue to support young people financially when they get involved in non-profit organizations across Europe in areas such as youth work, culture, social work or environmental protection. However, we do not want this instrument to be detrimental to a well-functioning social and youth policy. It must not compete with existing youth exchange programs and volunteer projects and must not be misused as a substitute for traditional jobs. We also advocate the involvement of experienced youth and civil society organizations in the member states in the further development of these programs.
Securing school milk and the school fruit program
We still want our children of primary school age to be provided with fresh milk and healthy fruit in schools. With the help of the relevant EU programs, we want to teach children how to handle basic foodstuffs and introduce them to healthy eating.
Promoting participation
We want to implement inclusion in a self-determined and individual way and not over-regulate it by the state. All measures must be accompanied by appropriate staff. We want to give parents as much freedom of choice as possible and achieve individual support for each person affected. Inclusion cannot be achieved at any price, but must always be based on the interests of all those affected. All people have a right to participation and involvement. To this end, we want to further develop the European strategy for the rights of people with disabilities.
Enabling lifelong learning
Adult education is essential for the further improvement of the general level of education in Europe and should be expanded to a greater extent. We want to make it easier for people to enter professions at a different level and take greater account of non-school qualifications in professional careers. With
examples here are internships and parental leave. This recognition must be harmonized across the EU. Taking demographic developments into account, educational opportunities are needed for all age groups.
Strengthening child protection and children's rights
We are firmly committed to child protection and children's rights throughout Europe. This includes the right to a daily balanced meal, the fight against child poverty and social protection for the youngest members of society. Europe must take more decisive action against sexual abuse. We want to protect the living and experiential space of our children and young people from abuse and prevent psychological and physical violence and abuse in educational institutions.
We FREIE WÄHLER want Europe to continue to secure our prosperity. We are working towards this by strengthening Europe as a location for innovation and thus securing high-quality jobs. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of our economy. To keep it that way, we support small and medium-sized industrial companies and the skilled trades.
High standards in data and consumer protection force our economy to remain innovative and create a high level of protection for our consumers. At the same time, we want to drastically reduce the requirements and reporting obligations to be met: Our companies do not need more bureaucracy to generate our prosperity, they need more freedom. This applies all the more to small and medium-sized enterprises.
In order for our economy to function, we are committed to a modern and well-functioning infrastructure. We want to expand it quickly and in line with demand, especially for cross-border traffic. We are also committed to ensuring that Europe quickly creates a modern digital infrastructure.
In international trade, we remain committed to defending our high environmental, social and food safety standards and preserving our publicly financed achievements in services of general interest.
Europe as a driver of innovation
Innovation is the key to our international competitiveness, highly skilled jobs and our prosperity. Together, we must ensure that our European industry does not fall behind. Europe must become the lead market for key future technologies and expand or take over the technological leadership role in key technologies. We want to achieve this with an ambitious, holistic innovation policy at European level. To achieve this, the EU must build on its traditional industries - the automotive industry, aviation technology, the chemical industry, the pharmaceutical industry and medical technology. But it is also important to catch up internationally in the fields of biotechnology and microelectronics. The same applies to the area of digital technology and the entire field of so-called "green" technologies.
Strengthening European research policy
Together, we want to strengthen the European Research Area. Excellence and subsidiarity must continue to be the cornerstones of European research funding. We advocate for Horizon Europe to be endowed with at least the previous budget resources of Horizon 2020. The priorities of education, research and innovation must not be scaled back despite Brexit.
Shaping modern innovation policy
We want to strengthen Europe's capacity for innovation. That is why we are committed to a faster transition of scientific findings into industrial application. We want better networking between industry and science, i.e. with our modern European research centers and universities. In future, the European Union must invest intelligently and ambitiously in research and development in a way that is open to technology and strengthens our knowledge society. In order for new innovations to establish themselves on the market more quickly, there is a need for Europe-wide coordination of demand promotion for many technologies.
Securing Europe's pioneering role in technology
The European Commission has already identified the key areas for an innovative European industry: drive and battery technologies, nanotechnology, biotechnology, microtechnology, smart grids and artificial intelligence. We support innovation in all industrial sectors on the way to a greener and lower-carbon economy. Europe should become a pioneer in these areas in the coming years.
Coordinate tax incentives for innovation
We want to strengthen innovation in Germany and Europe with the help of incentives for research and development. The willingness of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to innovate must be rewarded with tax breaks. In order to strengthen Europe as a location for innovation in this respect, we advocate more intergovernmental coordination.
Advancing joint European battery cell production
The demand for batteries is rising with the increased storage requirements of renewable energies and electromobility. However, Europe is lagging behind the East Asian region in terms of production. But this is precisely where there is great potential for value creation, which we need to secure our jobs and our prosperity. We therefore want to promote research, development and production on a European scale in this area in order to catch up as quickly as possible.
Accelerate European port strategy
The national ports on the North Sea and Baltic Sea coasts are indispensable for Germany's future energy security and must therefore be better networked at European level and upgraded in terms of infrastructure as quickly as possible. We are therefore calling for the planned national port strategy to be accelerated and coordinated with our European partners in a targeted manner in order to secure jobs in the port industry, diversify the energy supply and promote the hydrogen economy.
Expanding the European aerospace industry
We want to promote joint aircraft and engine programs in Europe. We want to secure the participation of medium-sized German companies in aerospace projects and promote the development of innovative products in Germany. We are committed to ensuring that the European Space Agency (ESA) retains and strengthens its independence. We also want to create a common European legal framework for non-governmental space activities.
Promoting the development of computer games in Europe
We want to promote Europe as a games location. Computer games have become an important cultural asset throughout Europe. It is an important branch of the creative sector with high growth potential. That is why we want to introduce a European computer games prize and launch our own European funding model for the young and innovative games industry.
Promoting software development in Europe
With very few exceptions, virtually none of the widely used (user) software products come from Europe. Europe is currently extremely dependent on non-European suppliers, which we want to minimize. Only competitive software products "made in Europe" guarantee the necessary level of data security and data protection, also with a view to the ever-increasing problem of "cyberwar" in the future.
Guaranteeing the protection of minors with computer games
Computer games are now part of the everyday culture of many children and young people. In principle, we believe it is necessary to continue to promote the audiovisual industry in Europe. The protection of minors must therefore apply to the entire audiovisual sector, including on- demand services, video streaming platforms, etc. For those areas where it is technically possible, we also call for the use of all currently suitable technical methods to verify compliance with the protection of minors. In particular, to protect young people from video games, we call for European harmonization of both age recommendations and content ratings. The rating should be made clear on the game packaging by means of various clear symbols. One problem is the increasing trend that content essential to the game can often only be unlocked through additional purchases. This business model quickly becomes an unmanageable cost trap for children and young people. We therefore advocate stricter protection of minors at this point. The same youth protection standards should apply to advertising within games as to the games themselves. Pure games of chance - even if played without monetary gain - should be classified in a higher age group or should not be available to minors.
Strengthening culture and the creative industries in Europe
We want to strengthen the European cultural and creative industries. We want to support music, books, art, films and other areas. In particular, we want to improve the cultural offer in rural areas. We stand by fixed book prices and reject liberalizing interventions at European level in this area. We are committed to the creation, preservation, promotion and expansion of cultural institutions, educational opportunities and activities.
Combating antibiotic resistance
Antibiotic resistance poses a significant threat to our health in Europe. The options for treating bacterial infections are dwindling and we are increasingly having to resort to reserve antibiotics. Due to a lack of sufficient references to indications for the use of antibiotics and an insufficient reduction in the general use of antibiotics, the number of cases of resistance to these reserve antibiotics is already rising. In order to achieve rapid success, we must particularly promote research efforts for additional treatment options in human and veterinary medicine at European level. At the same time, we are campaigning for Europe-wide recommendations on antibiotic prescribing practices based on the principles of ABS (Antibiotic Stewardship).
Expanding European pharmaceutical production
We want to develop and produce the best medicines and medical products for our health locally in accordance with European standards and thus promote Europe's independence from suppliers from third countries. That is why we want to promote pharmaceutical research and development at European level. We will uphold the ban on the supply of pharmaceutical products that are used to carry out the death penalty in non-European countries.
Protecting key technologies
We are committed to common European rules to protect important key technologies such as robotics. We must prevent strategic takeovers from countries such as China. We want to supplement our national and European foreign trade instruments accordingly.
Advancing the European Education Area
We fundamentally support the efforts to create a European education area in order to offer the best conditions for the bright minds of tomorrow. Europe's ability to innovate depends on this. However, it must not be a question of handing over responsibilities upwards in this area, but of developing the best education policy for our society in voluntary coordination with our neighbors. To this end, we want to create more cross-border cooperation between the member states and their regions in the field of education. We see the Erasmus+ program as an important instrument for promoting exchange within Europe.
Europe as a single market
We live in the largest single market in the world. Duty-free trade has secured our prosperity and jobs for decades. Common standards, from power plugs to exhaust emission standards for our cars, make it easier for our economy to produce for a very large market with the same rules.
Our attention is focused on the existing challenges facing our medium-sized economy. We FREIE WÄHLER want to give it real prospects again by creating the best framework conditions for it, avoiding competition-distorting regulations and guaranteeing individual responsibility and subsidiarity as the highest guidelines in European economic policy. Here, too, we advocate a consistent reduction in bureaucracy and stand up for
We are facing up to the overwhelming transparency, reporting and monitoring regulations. In the coming years, it will be particularly important to find the right answers to the trends of globalization, digitalization and artificial intelligence. We are fighting for a social market economy in Europe that serves its citizens.
Completing the digital single market
Our future lies in digitalization. Europe can position itself at the forefront of global competition if we make our common market fit for this challenge. It must not matter from where citizens access websites. We want to consistently remove obstacles to digital offerings due to different national regulations in order to create new opportunities for our small and medium-sized enterprises.
Living the start-up culture in Europe
We want uniform rules to sustainably strengthen the start-up culture in Europe. It is important to us to ensure the uniform application of European law and to find a common definition for "start- up" in order to coordinate support measures across Europe in a targeted manner.
Aligning economic policy with SMEs
Large corporations can often cope with EU regulations without any problems, while small and medium-sized companies can hardly cope with the burden of the requirements. We advocate regulation that does justice to small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Europe and protects them from excessive bureaucracy. Reporting and notification obligations must be continuously evaluated and checked for their justification. Authorities must explain and justify the purpose for which data is collected and what happens to the statistical material. In future, there must be a one-in-two-out rule. If new reporting and notification obligations are introduced, others must be dropped.
Securing the supply of credit
We are committed to ensuring that banking regulation is SME-friendly. It must not make it more difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to access financing. In particular, the capital adequacy requirements must be handled very sensitively. The introduction of ESG criteria must not lead to an impediment or even a deterioration in the supply of credit, particularly for SMEs and craft businesses. The introduction of a Green Supporting Factor or a Brown Penalizing Factor in the context of capital adequacy is strictly rejected. Supervisory regulations must only serve to maintain financial stability at micro and macro level and must not be associated with structural policy intentions. Supervisory regulations must remain primarily the responsibility of the European Parliament and the European Council. The application of delegated acts to extend the powers of the European Supervisory Authorities (EBA, ESMA and EIOPA) has led to increased lack of transparency, legal uncertainty and excessive regulation. The density of regulation has far exceeded the acceptable level that can be implemented by the supervised financial market players.
Making data protection law SME-friendly
We are committed to a SME-friendly revision of European data protection law. Particularly with regard to the ePrivacy Regulation, it is important to maintain scope for innovation and digital business models. At European level, we want to establish a high-level working
group with practitioners from SMEs, the digital economy and the voluntary sector to submit proposals for practicable reforms. This working group should also modernize the GDPR and ensure meaningful data protection vis-à-vis third parties and the state.
Receive master craftsman training
We are campaigning at European level for the retention of master craftsman training. It guarantees high-quality services in the skilled trades and ensures their continued existence. In order to enhance the value of vocational training, particularly in the skilled trades, it should be brought more into line with free university studies through public funding of master craftsman training.
Combating the shortage of skilled workers
While there is a lack of jobs in many European countries, there is a considerable shortage of skilled workers in a number of sectors in Germany. We therefore want to improve the mobility of workers in Europe and advocate better comparability of educational standards and the common B2 language level as a reference basis.
More targeted promotion of tourism regions
We want to further improve the framework conditions for tourism in Germany. To this end, we want to dovetail the funding instruments of the EU, the federal government and the federal states more closely.
Preventing industrial espionage
We are committed to a European strategy against international industrial espionage. In this way, we want to advise small and medium-sized enterprises in particular and protect their knowledge and intellectual property from unauthorized access.
Europe as consumer protector
We FREIE WÄHLER are committed to a high level of consumer protection in Europe. The precautionary principle in environmental and health policy has priority: products and services whose disadvantages and harmfulness to people, the environment and nature cannot be ruled out must not be allowed onto the European market.
In the course of digitalization, data protection is playing an increasingly important role. A single European digital single market requires common and practicable standards for all users.
Ensuring secure data exchange
We are committed to the secure exchange of data with other economic areas. This is a prerequisite for the success of the German and European digital economy. Effective multilateral agreements are needed to protect data exchange at European level.
Strengthening the principle of net neutrality
We advocate the preservation of net neutrality. Fair competition for the best products is only possible if all data is forwarded with the same priority regardless of source, destination and content. Favoring or discriminating against certain competitors or content prevents innovation in the long term. This is detrimental to Europe as a business location.
Enforcing price transparency
We are committed to ensuring that all consumers are shown the same prices on online comparison and advice portals and that there is no manipulation with the help of algorithms.
Maintaining the safety of medical products
We want medicinal products and medical device studies to consistently meet the recognized standards for the protection of human research and for the studies to be subject to mandatory publication. These must also be publicly announced before they are carried out in order to reduce publication bias.
Europe as a legislator
Where the EU inhibits the entrepreneurial spirit of people and companies, the acceptance of our work of peace suffers. Reducing bureaucracy, on the other hand, is the best economic stimulus program. We therefore want Europe to focus on its key challenges. We stand for a Europe with less bureaucracy and less superfluous regulation. However, we want more cooperation where it offers citizens real added value.
Introducing the paragraph brake for Europe
We want to counteract the increase in bureaucratic requirements in European legislation. These affect small and medium-sized enterprises, the skilled trades and voluntary work in particular. In addition, we want to prevent the transposition of EU directives into national law from triggering a further flood of paragraphs by federal and state legislators in Germany.
Form committee to reduce bureaucracy
The reduction of bureaucracy is an important core issue of European policy, which is why we are calling for a dedicated committee for this topic in the EU Parliament. We will also campaign for the BRIDGE-EU (Border Regency Initiative for Development and Growth in Europe) program.
Ensuring that EU laws are suitable for SMEs
We will campaign in Europe for implementable EU legislation for small and medium-sized enterprises. They must be largely relieved of European reporting obligations. We also want to exploit the potential of e-government, in particular to reduce the bureaucratic burden caused by European law and speed up administrative procedures.
Continuing the "strike list policy"
We are committed to ensuring that the EU Commission refrains from passing unnecessary or outdated laws. We want to continue to reduce bureaucracy in the EU in this way in the future. We will work to ensure that the reduction of bureaucracy also becomes a guiding principle in the structures of the EU Parliament.
Simplify public procurement law
We want to streamline European public procurement law in the interests of cities and municipalities and adjust the threshold values upwards. It must once again be possible for our mayors and district councils to carry out public procurement without time-consuming and expensive legal advice.
organize. In addition, awarding contracts could be significantly less time-consuming. When awarding contracts, the regional reference should be given a higher value - despite Europe-wide tendering.
Europe as a digital location
We FREIE WÄHLER are a party of progress and are committed to using technological developments without ideology for the benefit of European citizens. At the same time, we are aware that these also entail major challenges. Our aim is therefore to create a balance between development and our high social standards.
Digitalization is a European topic of the future. Digital companies have improved our lives. It is noticeable that the EU is lagging behind other regions of the world in the digital world. We need to create an environment in which a large number of small, medium-sized and large digital companies can flourish in the EU. Overly complicated framework conditions create disadvantages in this future market, especially for small companies. As a responsible force in the political center, we approach digitalization optimistically, but not naively.
Targeted regulation of social media and market-dominating digital companies
In recent years, Brussels has created the extensive DMA and DSA digital laws. These regulations are sensible approaches to counteract digital monopolies and to combat the most serious excesses in social networks. The concrete application in the coming years will show to what extent readjustment is necessary. The potential for addiction and political manipulation by extremist parties in Germany as well as political influence by foreign forces are aspects where it would appear to make sense to sharpen the focus.
Shaping digital progress in a socially responsible way
We see it as our task to create a balance between future technologies such as artificial intelligence, robotics or digital industrial applications and social standards, whether in the personal environment or at work. New technologies should support people, not burden or even replace them. We want to weigh up the opportunities and risks with the help of experts.
Advancing digitalization in urban and rural areas
Digitization must be driven forward in the municipalities and at state authorities. Citizens must be offered more opportunities to carry out administrative procedures digitally. The digital connection of rural areas must be at the same level as in metropolitan areas. Working from home must also be possible without restrictions in rural areas.
Digitizing justice and law enforcement
The expansion of digitization in the area of justice and law enforcement is lagging behind. Secure data exchange within European countries should be possible without restriction. This will relieve the burden on the judiciary in the European states.
Promoting broadband expansion
Fast internet should be available to all citizens. The expansion with fiber optics and 5G must continue. Schools, business, administration and private households should have optimal conditions for internet access at reasonable prices.
Protect personal data
We are committed to the protection of personal data. For reasons of data security, data centers must be operated in Europe and not in the USA or Asia. We want to create a secure European data space and an effective European data strategy in compliance with existing data protection rules.
Continuing the gigabit offensive
To ensure that all citizens have equal access to digital opportunities, a reliable infrastructure in the form of nationwide coverage with fiber optic networks is necessary. This applies in particular to rural areas, which are often neglected. We will continue to ensure European funding for digital data networks and work to ensure that European state aid law does not stand in the way of state funding efforts.
Developing a lead market for 5G technology
We want Europe to play a leading role in the introduction of the 5G standard, taking health aspects into account. Many future technologies, such as autonomous driving, depend on nationwide availability. We rely on intelligent solutions to make this a reality. To ensure that not every network operator builds its own network for the radio masts and that there is full network coverage even in rural areas, we are striving for a division of labor via "national roaming".
Europe as a guarantee of mobility
An efficient infrastructure is a prerequisite for an economically successful Europe. It must enable people, goods and services to reach their destinations quickly and reliably. Intra- European roads, waterways and railways must be adapted to the required capacities and should be state of the art. We FREIE WÄHLER want safe, clean, efficient and user-friendly transport. For example, there is great potential to reduce intra-European air traffic through efficient rail connections between the major cities.
We are in favor of open-technology drive research in the transport sector. Solutions for reducing emissions should not be politically and ideologically predetermined, but should develop through competition for the best ideas.
For the requirements of rural areas with their long distances, combustion engines in combination with biologically or synthetically produced fuels can represent a climate-neutral alternative. We therefore reject a one-sided focus on the promotion of electric vehicles. Traffic routes should always remain public and be bought back if necessary. They are essential for the infrastructure and do not belong in private hands.
Preventing car tolls
We continue to oppose the introduction of a car toll in Germany, which is contrary to European law, and are committed to ensuring that everyone can afford the mobility that suits them and that no new burdens artificially increase the cost of their mobility.
Promoting local public transport in border regions
Especially in European border regions, people often do not work and live in the same country and commute across the border. We want to create incentives for cities and municipalities in bordering member states to work better together in the choice of means of transport and mobility management. We want to increase the attractiveness of cross-border public transport.
Supporting sustainable mobility in the EU
We support and demand more EU measures for more sustainable mobility in Europe. Shared use of cars (car sharing) should be promoted - especially in rural areas. Efficient exhaust emission limits must be further developed with a view to feasibility and cost-effectiveness. Internal combustion cars should remain affordable and e-cars should become affordable. The further expansion of the hydrogen infrastructure must be promoted.
Expanding public transport services
We are committed to expanding local public transport services. In addition to school transport, rural areas should be connected to the central and upper city several times a day. Accessibility for people with limited mobility must be ensured across the board.
Guaranteeing affordable mobility
The use of public transport should be permanently affordable - additional social tariffs are needed for people with low incomes and physical disabilities. The efficiency of public transport must be guaranteed by the Member States. Desolate conditions such as those in German train services must be prevented.
Expanding safe cycle paths
The expansion of cross-border cycle paths should be promoted by the EU. By increasing the use of e-bikes, part of the traffic can be shifted to environmentally friendly cycling. Particular attention must be paid to the safety of cycle paths.
Strengthening trans-European transport networks
A good transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for economic success and requires reliable and fast railroads, roads and waterways so that people and goods can reach their destination quickly, safely and economically. We call for the rapid expansion of the major European transport axes so that not only the large metropolitan areas benefit, but rural areas are also connected in the best possible way.
Solving major traffic problems
Europe should concentrate on the essentials in transport policy. We reject excessive regulation without cross-border significance and European added value. For this reason, we will continue to oppose ideas such as a uniform European speed limit or a Europe-wide requirement for cyclists to wear high-visibility vests. We also reject tachograph regulations that are hostile to SMEs.
Creating a European freight route system
We are campaigning at European level for a common freight route system. Freight traffic with European goods is increasing between Genoa and Rotterdam. We are therefore calling for the accelerated implementation of the European infrastructure program for the new planning of
High-speed and freight transportation routes, such as the Westerwald-Taunus Tunnel. In the case of projects such as the Brenner northern approach, attention must be paid to the use of existing infrastructure and land-saving planning. We also want to achieve the mandatory establishment of measuring stations in order to monitor and reduce noise pollution in Europe.
Further expanding night train connections in Europe
We are campaigning for the expansion of night train connections in Europe as an environmentally friendly alternative to flights. To ensure that the service is also competitively priced in Germany, we are campaigning for a reduction in the rail toll for night trains.
Improving cross-border inland waterway connections
We want to expand the so-called freeways of the sea across all modes of transport. We want to further strengthen the planned high-performance transport network, consisting of short sea shipping in conjunction with the land transport carriers of the Trans-European Network (TEN-T). To this end, all member states must develop efficient seaport and hinterland terminals in order to create an efficient, environmentally friendly and climate-friendly transport network.
Drives of the future
E-fuels, biofuels, gas, hydrogen, grid-connected or battery-powered electromobility can be important building blocks for the climate-friendly transformation of the transport sector, provided that the fuel is produced sustainably. The task of politics is to promote research and development in all technologies so that Europe remains the top location for vehicle production. Emission-reduced mobility improves the quality of life, especially in cities. Electric, hydrogen and natural gas buses in local public transport make an important contribution. We see the Europe-wide development of the necessary infrastructure for charging and refueling vehicles with alternative fuels as an effective way of promoting the respective technology.
Connecting European capitals
We support the expansion of fast rail transport between major European cities. Good frequencies and night-time connections should offer a real alternative to air travel. We are committed to the creation of a European transport network system that simplifies the purchase of cross-border tickets and enables season tickets.
Expand shore power supply
We want to expand the supply of shore-side electricity in all European ports to reduce emissions from shipping during lay times.
Europe as a trading power
Europe is facing major challenges in international trade: We FREIE WÄHLER do not want the trading power China, among others, to try to dictate the future rules of world trade to us, far removed from our values. We want to do everything in our power to ensure that Europe maintains its current strength in international trade and concludes free trade agreements in the interests of its citizens.
We stand for a value-based trade policy that makes high standards and the commitments from the Paris Climate Agreement the basis for joint trade. We stand for growth, sustainability and justice.
Strengthening SMEs in international trade
Trade barriers are significant obstacles, especially for small and medium-sized exporting companies. We are committed to ensuring that they in particular, as the backbone of our economy, benefit more from international trade in the future.
Remove services of general interest from trade agreements
We will work hard to ensure that public services such as drinking water supply and wastewater disposal do not come under pressure from Brussels and international trade to be privatized. We are campaigning for unassailable exceptions for such sensitive areas when new trade rules are agreed and for our cities and municipalities to continue to have full sovereignty over the design and organization of the provision of public services.
Revive world trade rounds
We advocate a revival of world trade rounds within the WTO framework. The EU's current policy, which focuses too strongly on agreements with individual trading partners, is not the ideal path for us. We want to focus more on a uniform regulation in international trade to which all 164 WTO states commit themselves.
Meeting developing countries fairly
We want to achieve a value-based re-foundation of European trade policy, particularly in trade with Africa. Trade and fisheries agreements that cause poverty and misery and thus promote growing migration to Europe must finally be replaced by fair and sustainable agreements. The private sector profits that are currently being made in Africa through unfair trade practices bear no relation to the social costs of the increasing migratory pressure on Europe.
Banning trade in conflict minerals
We want to take decisive action against the use of mineral resources from conflict or high-risk regions. The EU regulation on trade in conflict minerals provides a good framework and must be consistently implemented by the member states. We also want to advocate for the abolition of exemption limits and their extension to the entire supply chain.
We FREIE WÄHLER want to return to a stable currency and the principle that e a c h country is liable for its own debts. Our monetary union must become a stability union. We want to prevent the debt policies of individual countries from further burdening and endangering our entire economic system and taxpayers.
The EU has to tackle many international challenges such as migration, border protection and counter-terrorism and cyber defense. We believe that adequate funding for these major tasks is urgently needed, especially as it is less costly and more effective than individual national solutions. We want to continue important expenditure items such as regional funding at the current level.
Europe as a currency area
We FREIE WÄHLER want to correct the misguided euro rescue policy of recent years. We do not want to further develop instruments that have been created provisionally, but rather reduce them. Every country must be liable for its own debts; violations of the Stability and Growth Pact must be consistently punished.
Stop the debt union
"Every country is liable for its own debts" - we continue to advocate this principle. We firmly reject the communitization of debt in the form of common bonds or o t h e r instruments. We want to end the EU debt created with the so-called reconstruction fund as quickly as possible and return to the EU's debt ban.
Reforming the Stability and Growth Pact
We are committed to reforming the Stability and Growth Pact. Future violations should be automatically punished and sanctioned. In this way, we will achieve greater budgetary discipline and prevent the stability of our monetary union from being dependent on political decisions.
Realigning the ECB
The independence of the central bank from political influence remains very important to us. However, we want the voting rights of the national central banks in the ECB to be granted internally according to the corresponding liability shares. We also want a system change towards an annual repayment of Target balances through gold. Furthermore, we advocate a blocking minority of 25% of the votes if ECB measures could lead to a redistribution of assets between eurozone countries. We want the remuneration of the ECB leadership to be performance-oriented. They should receive bonuses if they manage to keep inflation close to 2 percent and only low salaries if the ECB falls well short of its inflation target.
Dissolve the ESM
We want to dismantle the European Stability Mechanism as a hastily introduced crisis instrument by gradually reducing the ESM's lending capacity.
Preventing the European Monetary Fund
The European Commission plans to develop the European Stability Mechanism into a European Monetary Fund. We firmly reject this. This would create a set of instruments that would deprive national parliaments of any remaining control and, at the same time, would result in very high levels of state aid in the event of a crisis. In addition, there is no need for a duplicate structure to the International Monetary Fund, which has long been in existence and works extremely well.
Breaking the "vicious circle" between states and banks
During the euro crisis, the so-called "doom loop" became clear: states cannot go bankrupt because otherwise the banks will go bankrupt. And banks cannot go bankrupt because otherwise the states will go bankrupt. This vicious circle makes the member states vulnerable to blackmail. We are striving to break this mutual dependency by shaping banking regulation in the sense of risk-adequate pricing, i.e. by not regulating government bonds in particular.
are no longer considered risk-free by definition. Removing this disincentive will lead to banks reducing their exposure to government bonds, thus breaking the vicious circle.
Introduce orderly state insolvency proceedings
We want clear rules in the event of the insolvency of a euro state. This requires an independent body to monitor the process. The International Monetary Fund could take on this task. Binding rules should ensure that insolvency proceedings are completed within a set period of time and that debt restructuring negotiations cannot be delayed.
Regulating the exit procedure from the monetary union
We advocate clear rules for exiting the eurozone. In future, it must be clear what happens to a member state if it becomes an unacceptable burden on the eurozone. So far, the treaties only allow for a complete withdrawal from the EU. By leaving the eurozone, however, a crisis-ridden EU member state can return to a national currency and gradually regain its competitiveness through devaluation.
Combating corruption, tax fraud and money laundering
A lot of money in Europe bypasses the treasury of the member states. As a result, states are more indebted than necessary or many important projects cannot be realized. We want to change this: We want decisive action against corruption, tax fraud and money laundering internationally and in Europe. We advocate more cooperation at EU level. However, the last word on the subject of taxes must remain with the member states.
Creating a European financial transaction levy
We are in favor of a financial transaction levy. However, regulation here only makes sense within a larger European framework. We therefore advocate a European transaction levy at this point. We want to allocate the resulting revenue to the EU budget as additional own resources. Private capital formation and the formation of pension capital should be exempt from this financial transaction levy. However, the financial transaction levy should only be introduced if the cost-benefit ratio justifies it.
Exempting savings banks and cooperative banks from the EU deposit guarantee scheme We will continue to oppose a European deposit guarantee scheme that jeopardizes the proven investor protection in Germany and even indirectly the solvency of businesses and commercial enterprises. We do not want our solidly operating savings banks and cooperative banks to be forced to assume joint liability for ailing banks.
Enable special treatment of regionally active banks
We are committed to preserving our proven German three-pillar banking model. Especially in times of crisis, our banking structure has proven its worth for savers, investors and the SME sector. We clearly reject Brussels' repeated attempts to call into question the structure of our savings banks and cooperative banks. After all, they are important financial partners for many people and companies in our country. We will continue to make a distinction in regulation between savings banks, cooperative banks and development banks.
The small banks with low-risk business models should be distinguished from the systemically important large banks. The small institutions must not have to bear the burden of the special control requirements of the large ones.
Receive cash
We oppose the efforts to abolish our cash. In view of increasing cyber attacks, we consider it highly negligent to rely exclusively on electronic payment transactions. The security policy goals of traceability of all transactions will not be achieved anyway if there are alternatives to other currencies, voucher systems or cryptocurrencies. In addition, the power of banks and state organizations will increase if it is no longer possible to keep cash at home.
Reject the digital euro as the sole means of payment
We are critical of a digital euro. We would only accept such a digital euro if it fulfills all of the following points: Firstly, it must not be implemented as a substitute for cash. Secondly, it must meet very high standards of data protection and anonymity. Thirdly, it must not invite bank runs. Fourthly, it must not be used for social scoring systems.
Europe as a housekeeper
Europe must become more economical and efficient in the execution of common tasks, but at the same time have sufficient financial resources at its disposal to be able to fulfill the large and important tasks. We FREIE WÄHLER are therefore committed to an EU that handles German taxpayers' money responsibly and limits itself to its central tasks. At the same time, we want fairer contributions in the EU in order to reduce the burden on Germany.
We Free Voters want to make more targeted use of European funding to reduce differences between urban and rural areas and to better network the regions with each other. In this way, we are striving for equality of living conditions between urban and rural areas. To achieve this, we need to further optimize European regional and structural policy for our municipalities. The current funding policy is inefficient, non-transparent and too bureaucratic.
Making the EU budget transparent
We are committed to ensuring that the public can better understand the EU budget, the focus of spending and its added value. In particular, we expect the Commission to return to publishing the "operational budget balances" and thus make it clear to citizens which member states are net contributors and which are net recipients. We want all social actors to be equally involved in budget discussions, regardless of their lobby budget. This includes representative associations, social partners, initiatives and other stakeholders. In this way, we want to create more acceptance for the EU's political goals.
Taxing large corporations fairly
Internationally active companies must no longer shirk their social responsibility. Just like SMEs, they must pay appropriate taxes here if they generate profits in Europe. We continue to advocate that multinational corporations and in particular internet companies such as Alphabet, Alibaba, Apple, Meta and Amazon are finally held accountable.
Realigning European regional funding
We a r e committed to a policy that ensures economic and social cohesion in all regions of Europe. We want to enable structurally weaker regions to catch up through their own efforts. The improvement and reorientation of regional funding in the EU should take place at various levels. The promotion of employment, education and opportunities for social inclusion must be strengthened. The promotion of research and innovation must be increased. The modernization of the transport and energy sectors should be driven forward. EU regional funding should be improved by focusing more strongly on the areas and sectors in which the greatest progress can be expected. Projects that strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in the areas of trade, commerce, agriculture and services should be given priority. The EU's digital agenda should be driven forward more strongly. We a d v o c a t e graduated access to regional funding according to the level of development of the regions. The regions should be divided into three categories for this purpose (less developed regions, transition regions and more developed regions). We want to evaluate this classification on an ongoing basis.
Making EU funding more practical
Applying for EU funding remains impractical. Against this background, we want to revise the funding system and tailor it better to the existing conditions. However, the own contribution to be made is important. It prevents projects with high costs and minimal added value from being implemented.
FREE VOTERS
Federal Association
Mühlenstraße 13
27777 Ganderkesee
Phone: +49 (0) 4222 96593 0
Fax: +49 (0) 4222 96593 19
bgs@freiewaehler.eu www.freiewaehler.eu







Election program
for the 2024 European
European elections 2024: Together for European independence
War, poverty and social inequality, ecological collapse, the rise of anti-democratic forces - in 2024, our society is facing existential crises that are completely unclear as to whether and how they will be overcome. An ambiguity that results from the fact that those who wield power, namely the rich, large corporations and politicians who serve them, make decisions behind closed doors. This leads to decisions that prioritize profit over people and the planet. Oligarchic power structures have become the biggest insecurity factor for peace and prosperity in Europe today. MERA25 wants to put an end to these conditions.
We strive for the people to take control of our common destiny instead, not those who only have profit in mind. We at MERA25 b e l i e v e t h a t i t i s t i m e f o r Europe's people to democratically decide how our economy is run, how public money is spent, how the housing, healthcare and education backlogs are made up, how peace is achieved and, ultimately, what future we want to see. Only together, across borders, can we successfully tackle the urgent challenges of our time, including:
? Increasing inequality: the poor are getting poorer and the rich are getting richer;
? Falling standard of living: Prices for basic goods have skyrocketed, while there is less and less affordable housing;
? Environmental disasters and planetary heating: time is running out to stop climate change;
? War: We do not want any support for wars, no armament spirals, no dangerous logic of military deterrence and no new bloc confrontation;
? Genocide in Gaza: Together with the voices of the Palestinian movement and the international community, we denounce Israeli apartheid, genocide and German complicity;
? Disenchantment with politics: The loss of trust in state institutions and the political establishment promotes the acceptance of authoritarianism and discrimination against minorities;
? Dwindling public services: Public goods are increasingly being privatized, and equal and needs-based service provision is no longer a given.
What we are experiencing today is the result of political decisions that favor the few in our society and forget the many. It is therefore not surprising that one in six people in the European Union is considered to be at risk of poverty, while at the same time the number of billionaires has risen to almost 400. This trend is the result of a fatal link between ruling parties and powerful companies whose only goal is profit.
It is time to say: enough is enough! An alternative path must be taken that allows people to make their own decisions about their lives. A path that enables an affordable and self-determined life for people in Europe and beyond! As Europeans of diverse backgrounds, we share a peace-loving, deeply internationalist conviction and want to finally be able to live and decide independently!
Here you can find the European election program of MERA25: Financial independence for all
Job guarantee good wages
Four-day week lifetime income
We are fighting for fair wages across Europe to reduce inequality, guided by the welfare state model of strong trade unions and a society without poverty. Our goal is a dignified working life for all with the introduction of a four-day week. By offering a European Job Guarantee, we will create meaningful and dignified employment opportunities outside the private sector in areas such as care work, nursing, nature conservation, culture and popular sports. In addition, we aim to introduce a Europe-wide Universal Living Income of 60% of the median income in the respective countries in the medium term to enable everyone to live a dignified and purposeful life free from interference, poverty and exploitation.
Measures against inflation and loss of purchasing power
Price reductions for essential goods Profit brakes for the corporations
To make everyday goods affordable, we want to abolish European Union laws that artificially raise prices (e.g. on the electricity market) and abolish VAT on essential goods (e.g. water, food, medicines, household energy). We will enact legislation that makes it impossible for pharmaceutical companies to keep drug prices high through anti-social patenting. Sectors dominated by a few large corporations will be reformed to eliminate monopolies and oligopolies. Margin controls to prevent excess profits and direct price subsidies in the event of economic shocks due to supply shortages are among the instruments that must be used to react flexibly and appropriately to cost increases.
Green transformation
paid for by climate polluters
Free public transport Regenerative energy supply Ecological agriculture
We have launched an ambitious program to restore nature and preserve livelihoods. Our Green New Deal for Europe is the only investment program that combines climate protection, social security and democracy. It includes creating decent green jobs, making all local public transport in Europe free or cheap, supporting companies in switching to climate-neutral production, consistently transforming the energy supply to be renewable and oriented towards the common good, converting agriculture to organic and animal welfare- oriented methods, enabling healthy nutrition for all and making building and living ecologically sound.
more sustainable. This green transformation for the people should leave no one behind and should be paid for by the super-rich. To this end, we will campaign for the introduction of a progressive wealth tax. This solidarity tax will be levied on people who directly or indirectly own net assets of 2 million or more, thus exempting 99% of the European population.
Economic paradigm shift: one person, one voice
Socialization of basic goods (e.g. housing, electricity, heat, water)
Our vision is a world in which people live together freely and without constraints. To get closer to this vision, we want to democratize companies and corporations in the long term. "One person, one vote" must also apply in the world of work. This applies in particular to listed companies. It is not shareholders who create value, but the employees of a company. It should therefore be the employees who make key decisions, such as the choice of management, the distribution of funds and other fundamental decisions that affect the future of the workforce and the company. Sectors and infrastructure in Europe that form natural monopolies, as well as basic goods and utility services for a dignified life (e.g. electricity, heat, water, but also Internet access), will be assigned to the sovereign remit of the state and will be socialized or transferred to democratically managed public ownership where this is not already the case.
Peaceful international relations
Independence Non- alignment
peaceful conflict resolution
We want an independent and non-aligned European Union committed to global peace. A comprehensive international security framework should replace military blocs and resolve tensions by peaceful means. The Europe we aspire to will ensure social and environmental justice within and between nations, end the dominance of one country over another and maintain peaceful and independent relations with Washington, Moscow and Beijing. No country dominates another. Too many countries and their populations have been pushed into chaos, death and displacement by avoidable wars. Europe must take a courageous stand against all aggressors from any bloc and work for peaceful conflict resolution based on the UN Charter. To this end, we want not only to reform the United Nations, but also to strengthen arms control protocols in Europe, starting with the adoption of the treaty banning nuclear weapons throughout the continent and ending with global nuclear and military disarmament. We will push for the initiation of a peace process under UN auspices in Israel-Palestine, Ukraine, Western Sahara and elsewhere.
Solidarity and respect for human rights
Human being equals human being
Freedom of movement is a fundamental right
A peaceful and trusting coexistence of all people is the basis for prosperity and our ultimate goal. We firmly oppose fundamentalist and fascist endeavors and misanthropy. Our policy is based on the Geneva Conventions, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights for everyone, regardless of their country of birth. We recognize that migration is an extreme circumstance and rarely happens voluntarily and lightly. Therefore, we say no to the current European migration policy, whose main elements are externalization, border hardening, detention, rapid deportation and criminalization. In addition, European foreign policy is contributing to the global climate crisis through economic pressure, support for wars and climate-damaging
This action contributes significantly to forced migration, one of the targets of which are the EU member states. We support all municipalities in Europe that take in migrants and give them equal access to housing, work, healthcare and social participation. Our job guarantee, universal living income and access to common goods including education and housing will prevent the pitting of different population groups against each other. In addition, we will fight for the rights of women and minorities throughout the European Union. Human trafficking and gender-based violence will be added to the list of criminal offenses and all national legislation in EU countries will be aligned with the provisions of the Istanbul Convention.
The basis for prosperity:
A democratized euro
A payment platform for the many instead of a financial system for the few
With monetary policy as the exclusive playing field of an unelected elite of technocratic central bankers, a fundamental component of the political sphere has been almost completely removed from any democratic influence since the introduction of the euro and the establishment of the supposed independence of the European Central Bank (ECB). We oppose the ECB's arbitrary decisions regarding key interest rates, bond purchases and other monetary policy instruments, which are ineffective and misguided attempts to combat inflation on the backs of the working majority of European society and have massively promoted the extreme growth in wealth of a few oligarchs in recent years. We want to incorporate the area of monetary policy, analogous to fiscal policy, into the democratic sphere and transfer the political steering of the ECB to a strengthened European Parliament in order to democratically legitimize decisions on monetary policy in the future and coordinate them with the Parliament's budgetary agenda. We are also committed to an enabling monetary policy and will use the resulting opportunities to resolutely drive forward the socio-ecological transformation on our continent. Finally, we want to abolish the unjustified oligopoly of the commercial banking sector in payment transactions and implement a public digital payment platform that allows Europe's citizens to make transactions with hard digital central bank money (sovereign money) while complying with strict data protection requirements.
Real democracy
in a united Europe
Freedom Equality Transparency
We know: Europe must be democratized or it will disintegrate. That is why we are committed to the further development of the European Union into a federal European republic with the cornerstones of freedom as non-domination, legal equality, separation of powers and civil society participation. In it, the citizens of Europe should be able to elect a common, democratically sovereign and truly transnational parliament as well as other legislative bodies. In line with the concept of deliberative democracy, randomly drawn citizens' assemblies with binding decision-making powers at all administrative levels should act as an additional check and corrective to government policy and, by directly involving the population in the political process, reduce disenchantment with politics and strengthen trust in democratic institutions. The regulatory framework of this Europe should no longer be the nation states, but regions and cities. A constituent assembly should draw up and adopt a new social contract for the establishment of the European Republic to replace the existing neoliberal EU treaties.
