Information and Transparency

While lobbyists and interest representatives are informed comprehensively and in advance, citizens are generally denied information from the EU institutions. In negotiations on trade agreements such as TTIP, even the democratically elected representatives of the nation states were kept in the dark. That is why we are calling for an unrestricted right to information for all citizens and maximum transparency through mandatory publication of all data generated in the EU institutions along the lines of the Hamburg Transparency Act. All privileges for lobbyists must be abolished. Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) must publish an annual report detailing their financial sources and activities.
Bodies that serve to circumvent democracy, such as a "Conference for the Future of Europe",
We as the AfD reject "citizens' councils" and the like! These are simulations of democracy that are intended to conceal the existing democratic deficits.


Fundamentalist Islam - a danger for Europe
We want to preserve Europe in the spirit of freedom and with its democratic values for us and our descendants in the long term. We defend Europe against a social regression caused by fundamentalist Islam, whose rules of life from the Koran and Sunnah cannot be reconciled with the basic European principles of law, freedom and democracy. Fundamentalist Islam, which is still valid today, sees itself not only as a religion, but also as the only authoritative legal and social order that wants to enforce its claim to rule over all people by means of Sharia law. This Islam makes no distinction between state and religion. Sharia law regulates not only the private lives of Muslims, but also all areas of social coexistence. In contrast, the legal systems of European countries provide for unrestricted freedom of faith, conscience and religion, as enshrined in the Basic Law's catalog of fundamental rights (Art. 4). Freedom of religion is alien to fundamentalist Islam. Islam sees itself as the only valid religion on earth to which all people must be converted. Turning away from Islam (apostasy) is punishable under Islamic law.

Since the 1960s, more and more migrants have gradually arrived in Germany and Europe, particularly from Islamic countries. This trend has continued to accelerate over the past twenty years and has taken on enormous proportions since 2015. In many countries of the European Union, such as Sweden (Malmö) with its extremely liberal immigration policy, France (Parisian banlieue, Marseille) with its former colonies on the African continent or Brussels (Molenbeek), this has led to unsolvable integration problems in the form of ghettoization.

and rampant crime. In some countries, such as France, Belgium and the Netherlands, entire districts are already inhabited by Islamic immigrants. The native population has been almost completely displaced. Such a development, which prevents the integration processes necessary for coexistence, must be avoided.

Immigration to EU countries must be subject to strict rules and massively restricted. Unequal legal and social treatment of men and women cannot be tolerated in our liberal democratic states. Child marriages, polygamy and forced marriages under Islamic law are not compatible with our legal system. This also applies to ritual genital mutilation. The applicable criminal law must be consistently enforced. Following the French model, the full veiling of women in public should be banned.