Subscribe to DeepL Pro to translate larger documents.
Visit www.DeepL.com/pro for more information.
New policy
for you
Election program of the
Humanist Party (PdH) for the 
2024 European elections
Adopted at the European Party Conference of the PdH in Lübeck on November 4, 2023
Foreword
Europe needs a new style of politics.
A political style of listening, proximity to citizens and facts. We 
meet Europe's challenges in an open-minded and unbiased way - 
this is the only way we have a chance of meeting them. We listen 
to experts and work with them to develop solutions that improve 
the lives of all people and give them the freedom to shape their 
own lives.
We are the PdH. The voice of the social-liberal awakening, the
Rethinking politics.
Together, we are shaping the future of Europe and
A sign against the standstill.
2 FOREWOR
D
Table of contents
Foreword 2
Table of contents 3
First the facts, then the position! - Our political style 4
Climate change & environmental protection 5
Summary 7
Migration & Integration 8
Summary 10
Economic recovery 11
Summary 13
European sovereignty & cooperation 14
Summary 16
Digitization & data protection 17
Summary 19
Closing words 20
3 TABLE OF CONTENTS
First the facts, then the position!
Our political style
Progressive policy develops solutions based on scientific findings.
First we gather all the important facts, then we develop our position. In doing so, we are not only 
guided by scientific consensus, but also work according to scientific principles ourselves. Time and 
again, we critically question whether our viewpoints still correspond to the latest scientific findings. 
Changing your mind is not "buckling", it's sensible!
We fulfill this promise on the basis of our socially liberal values and the philosophy of evolutionary 
humanism. We are convinced that people themselves know best what is good for them and that 
neither the state nor society should stand in their way of realizing their life plans. To this end, it is 
essential that Europe meets its central challenges. We currently see these in five key areas:
1. Climate change & environmental protection
2. Migration & Integration
3. Economic recovery
4. European sovereignty & cooperation
5. Digitization & data protection
We are a full program party. The challenges mentioned represent our priorities for the 2024 
European elections, not our entire party program. We are convinced that policies that listen to 
experts and combine their knowledge with social-liberal values are needed in every field. This 
includes a reform of the healthcare system, a fundamentally new approach to the education system, 
more state support for science and research, consistent secularization and a restructuring of social 
measures that are currently far too bureaucratic.
You can find our positions on these and other challenges at pdh.eu/program.
4 OUR POLITICAL 
STYLE
Climate change &
Environmental 
protection
Climate change and environmental protection are In order to achieve the European climate targets, we 
key challenges of our time. Since the 19th century, the adhere to a fixed upper limit for CO2 emissions. 
emission of greenhouse gases, primarily through the European countries issue limited CO2 emission allowances 
burning of fossil fuels, has led to a significant increase in that can be purchased and traded by companies. This 
the average global temperature. As a result of man-made system makes it possible to reduce emissions in a 
climate change, the probability of extreme weather market-conform and cost-efficient manner. Part of the 
events such as droughts, hurricanes and floods is revenue from emissions trading and CO2 taxation is used 
increasing. to promote the decarbonization of our economy and 
These changes threaten our livelihoods: landscapes are society. The remaining share is divided equally among 
becoming uninhabitable due to rising sea levels and the all citizens and repaid. This redistribution mechanism 
biosphere cannot adapt quickly enough to climate benefits the lower income groups in particular. They 
change. The effects of climate change in Germany to receive back more than they have paid in, while the 
date have been comparatively mild and public population with greater purchasing power is encouraged to 
awareness of this problem has only increased in recent prefer low-carbon products.2 With this approach, we 
years. We are now at a point where rapid action is create a balance between environmental protection and 
essential. The scientific consensus calls for a drastic social fairness.
reduction in human emissions in order to avert the most In order to create incentives for a recycling-oriented 
serious consequences of climate change and ensure a circular economy and minimize waste 
sustainable future. management, we are introducing a mandatory 
The global community must become more active than recycling quota for all EU member states, which will 
before. Investing in climate protection and research will result in sanctions if it is not met. In order to prevent the 
be more cost-effective in the long term than ignoring the circumvention of recycling quotas through waste exports, 
impending dangers and clinging to an economic system we are working with other member states to develop 
based on fossil fuels. solutions to reduce their waste and are working 
towards an increasing recycling rate. We also promote
 ocean cleanup technologies and implement them in the
The scientific consensus calls for a drastic within the framework of European projects.
reduction in human emissions in order to In order to effectively bind emissions and protect Europe 
avert the most serious consequences of climate from the effects of climate change, we are adapting our 
natural landscapes to climate change. We are 
change and ensure a sustainable future. achieving this through targeted renaturation measures in 
forests and wetlands. Peatlands in particular play a 
As one of the leading economic areas with one of the crucial role in climate protection, as they can store 
highest levels of greenhouse gas emissions since the enormous amounts of CO2 and water. However, their 
19th century, Europe has a special responsibility. It must drainage significantly reduces their CO2 storage function, 
not only achieve its own targets, but also establish a which is why the protection and sustainable management 
global strategy for reducing emissions in cooperation of moors and alluvial forests are key measures for 
with other major emitters such as the USA and China. reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We are also 
This can only succeed if Europe itself p lays its part in focusing on increased coastal protection. We recognize 
climate protection. Environmental protection is also an the potential of geoengineering methods and are 
urgent task. For example, the biodiversity crisis and promoting their use and further development. 
plastic waste in the oceans ultimately threaten our food Geoengineering encompasses various technologies that 
chain. We are tackling these challenges with a clear and can have a direct impact on the climate.
targeted policy without ideological blinkers and are giving 
the fight against climate change top political priority. In Some of these methods are already showing great promise 
order to reduce emissions and protect Europe from the in slowing global warming, while others require even more 
effects of climate change, we are anchoring the intensive research. We are convinced that they will be a 
consideration of ecological and social aspects in the valuable addition to our conventional climate protection 
European market economy. strategies in the future.
6 CLIMATE CHANGE & 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
In order to reduce emissions and protect Europe from We promote the bioeconomy, which uses biological 
the effects of climate change, we are actively promoting instead of fossil raw materials, through targeted 
the development of new methods for low-CO2 electricity measures in research, education and industrial 
generation and storage. In doing so, we consistently and development. We minimize the environmental impact 
undogmatically consider all existing technologies and by promoting the combination of conventional and 
ensure a balanced mix of centralized and decentralized organic farming methods. We strive for sustainable 
generation and storage capacities. Renewable energies intensification using all available technologies in order to 
are at the forefront of our strategy, and by promoting free up land for renaturation. Biodiversity benefits 
them we are creating jobs and boosting the economy. In more from this than from land-intensive organic 
order to make it possible to phase out coal as early as farming. Agricultural certificates such as
possible throughout the EU, we will continue to rely on "Organic" labels are only awarded if the production
low-carbon nuclear energy.2 We are modernizing is sustainable, resource-saving and low in CO .2
safe nuclear power plants and ensuring their continued We are also committed to scientifically sound decisions 
operation, while resuming research and development of on genetic engineering applications and products and 
new types of power plants. We are equipping nuclear increasingly support biotechnological research in 
reactors for fast load sequencing so that they can be agriculture and medicine. We reject dogmatically 
used in conjunction with renewable energies. motivated restrictions on the use of genetic 
The further development of nuclear fission technologies engineering. Glyphosate has been scientifically 
to fully utilize the energy content of uranium and to proven to be one of the most efficient plant protection 
convert long-lived radioactive waste into short-lived products. When used correctly, there is no increased risk 
radioactive waste as well as nuclear fusion are also of cancer for users or consumers. We therefore 
central components of our research funding. We are extend the approval of glyphosate and reject approval 
having a panel of experts work out the exact timetable for requirements that come close to a ban in practice. We 
the transition to modern nuclear reactor types. We will promote and simplify the replacement of animal 
also revise the EU taxonomy: It is the result of products with plant-based, biotechnological or 
political negotiations rather than scientific analysis. synthetically produced alternatives. To this end, we 
For example, we are critical of the inclusion of natural are reforming the EU Novel Food Regulation to improve 
gas in the taxonomy and call for nuclear energy to be the integration of new food technologies and products.
recognized as a long-term climate-friendly and Standards in livestock farming must be based on 
environmentally friendly technology instead of just a scientific findings about the high sensitivity of 
bridging technology. animals. In this way, we are creating comprehensive 
In order to reduce emissions and protect Europe improvements in the living conditions of millions of 
from the effects of climate change, we are creating a animals. We reduce animal testing to the minimum 
climate-friendly and climate-resilient transport necessary to combat life-threatening human diseases 
infrastructure. Rail transport is one of the most and are committed to the development and use of 
climate-friendly means of transportation for both freight alternative methods to animal testing.
and passengers and is therefore the focus of our We are fundamentally changing EU subsidies for 
efforts. In the long term, we are working on the agriculture. Instead of flat-rate subsidies or support 
harmonization of cross-border rail transport in Europe based on acreage or production, farmers would be 
in order to overcome technical challenges such as supported on the basis of concrete, verifiable results in 
different track gauges or current voltages. To make train areas such as animal welfare, climate protection and 
travel in Europe more attractive, we are introducing a environmental protection. They would also be 
European ticket for all European local and regional remunerated for ecosystem services such as the creation of 
transport, supporting the establishment of night trains flower strips, the improvement of soil and water quality 
and reforming the Interrail ticket. Standardized booking or the storage of CO2 in arable soils. You can find all of 
platforms and tariff systems will complement this our positions on climate, environment, agriculture and 
process and reform rail transport in Europe. animal welfare at pdh.eu/gsp/climate-environment-
In order to reduce emissions and protect Europe from agriculture-animal-protection and the detailed section 
the effects of climate change, we are modernizing on climate protection at pdh.eu/climate-change.
European agriculture.
7 CLIMATE CHANGE & 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Summary
• European social-ecological market economy
Integration of ecological, economic and social aspects with fixed CO2 upper limits
• CO2 -emissions trading
Incentives for the purchase of low-carbon products and support for low-income households 2
• Mandatory recycling quota
Promoting the circular economy and minimizing waste in all EU member states
• Renaturation measures
Focus on forests, wetlands and moors for climate adaptation, CO2 sequestration and biodiversity
• Geoengineering
Development of methods to mitigate the effects of climate change
• Technology for low-CO2 energy
Focus on renewable energies and modern nuclear energy
• Climate-friendly transport infrastructure
Emphasis on cross-border rail transport and introduction of the Europa Ticket for single and cross-border travel.
Cheap rail travel within the EU
• Agriculture 2.0
Use of innovative technologies, science-based decisions on genetic engineering and promotion of the 
bioeconomy
• Alternative food production
Supporting plant-based, biotechnological and synthetic alternatives to animal products and
better animal husbandry conditions
• Reduction in animal testing
Promotion of alternative testing methods
• Reform of EU agricultural subsidies
Focus on verifiable results in animal welfare, climate and environmental protection
8 CLIMATE CHANGE & 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Migration &
Integration
Migration, a shortage of skilled workers, society, migrants who have repeatedly or seriously 
demographic change and the associated young talent, committed criminal offenses must be deported. If they 
education and pension problems pose major challenges are threatened with persecution or punishment practices 
for Europe. Immigration into the labor market helps to that violate human rights, such as torture, in their home 
counteract the shortage of skilled workers and country, they cannot be deported. They must then be 
demographic change. Recognized refugees and asylum treated in accordance with German criminal law. If 
seekers with the prospect of staying are, if successfully asylum applications are rejected or the need for 
integrated, an asset to our society and our economy. At protection no longer applies, we pursue a consistent 
the same time, immigration is associated with risks if the repatriation policy that deals humanely with 
authorities and local authorities are overburdened by the situations such as illness, pregnancy and affected 
influx of asylum seekers. The consequences are children.
unregulated immigration, rejected but not deported Strict controls at the EU's external borders are 
asylum seekers and a lack of integration, which necessary to curb illegal immigration and ensure 
contributes to the emergence of parallel societies. In Europe's security. Internal European border controls, on 
addition, there are mass deaths in the Mediterranean the other hand, contradict freedom of movement, one of 
and on the refugee routes as a whole, which must be the central achievements of modern Europe, and are 
stopped as a matter of urgency. also highly ineffective. The infrastructure required is 
disproportionate to the potential benefit of identifying 
Strict controls at the EU's external borders immigrants, who ultimately still have a right to a 
are necessary to curb illegal immigration and regulated procedure.
ensure Europe's security. For a regulated and responsible migration policy, we 
are pooling Europe's strengths in a joint office for 
Those who make it to Europe are often not the most refugees and migration. This is where we 
vulnerable or needy, but tend to be those who have the coordinate European refugee policy centrally. We are 
means, resources and physical strength to make the in favor of automated, computer-aided preliminary 
dangerous journey. This raises questions about the current checks of asylum applications whose algorithms are 
direction of our asylum policy. Furthermore, Europe must transparent and comprehensible. This not only speeds up 
not violate its values, for example through illegal the admission process, but also improves the 
pushbacks. These politically unresolved grievances consistency and objectivity of decisions. A fully digital 
also contribute to the rise of right-wing populism and solution simplifies and speeds up the process of 
right-wing radicalism, which further deepens the social registering, distributing and forwarding refugees. This 
divide. It is therefore imperative that we recognize both significantly reduces bureaucratic effort, relieves the 
the opportunities and challenges of migration and burden on authorities and enables asylum procedures to 
identify rational solutions. If Europe succeeds in be processed more quickly.
combating the causes of flight, managing migration, For a regulated and responsible migration policy, we 
promoting legal migration into the labour market, are establishing a fair system for the distribution of 
ensuring the integration of asylum seekers with prospects refugees and asylum seekers throughout the EU. 
of remaining and recognized refugees and consistently The current regulation, according to which every person 
deporting asylum seekers without prospects of remaining, seeking protection must apply for asylum where they 
Europe will benefit. enter the EU, is unfair and overburdens countries at the 
For a regulated and responsible migration policy, we EU's external borders. Together with other EU member 
are clearly committed to the right to asylum, the states, we are working towards fair distribution in order to 
Geneva Convention on Refugees and the right to relieve the burden on the primary countries of arrival, 
subsidiary protection. We reject populist and restrictive such as Greece and Italy.
solutions such as upper limits, as they could lead to For a regulated and responsible migration policy, we 
us not granting adequate protection to refugees in define clear European criteria for third countries to 
need of protection in emergency situations, such as determine which of them can be classified as safe 
the attack on Ukraine, which is contrary to countries of origin. These criteria should be adopted 
international law. For the security of our by parliament. Instead of each European country deciding 
individually which third countries it classifies as safe, we 
are striving for a
10 MIGRATION & INTEGRATION
coordinated and uniform approach. This is essential This also includes approving, actively enabling and 
for an EU external border without controlled internal demanding gainful employment during the 
borders, avoids inefficient and lengthy political ongoing admission process. This facilitates 
debates about individual countries and instead integration and provides valuable insights into the 
creates clarity. A third country that meets the defined qualifications of immigrants. Those who are socially 
criteria is classified as a safe country of origin. If it no integrated and working are not rejected, but accepted. 
longer meets the criteria, it loses this status. Together We also carry out development work in emerging and 
with our European partners, we are developing these developing countries by supporting skilled workers in 
criteria, whereby the rule of law and respect for their training with the option of working in Europe.
human rights are absolute minimum We see immigration and cultural diversity as an 
standards. These minimum standards apply not opportunity. Immigration can strengthen science, 
only to safe countries of origin, but also to all other third innovation, research and education in Europe and 
countries with which we are aiming to conclude have a positive impact on the economic prospects of 
repatriation agreements and negotiations on our community of values. We therefore promote 
migration cooperation. The joint approach serves a international cooperation and networking of 
migration strategy based on solidarity and specialists and are a platform for professional and 
strengthens the united external impact of the European scientific exchange. By expanding uniform European 
Union. educational guidelines, we are modernizing the 
For a regulated and responsible migration policy, we education system and facilitating access to top-quality 
actively tackle the causes of flight. This can be education, including for children with a migrant 
achieved by tackling factors such as a lack of economic background. Educational opportunities must be made 
prospects or threats from climate change locally. available as early as kindergarten age within the 
Climate change is one of the biggest causes of framework of ideologically neutral kindergartens. This is 
displacement. Countries with low levels of prosperity are how we counteract the emergence of parallel 
particularly at risk. Effective climate policy can therefore societies. Together, we will master the challenges of 
also help to regulate migration. By helping to tackle these globalization, digitalization and technological progress 
problems locally and at the same time curbing our with a high-quality education system.
own emissions, we can limit displacement before it For regulated and responsible integration, we rely on 
occurs. the principle of "support and demand". This means 
We see great benefit in the expansion of partnerships that all migrants are granted fundamental rights and equal 
between the EU and other nations. These are opportunities. In return, we strictly demand a 
indispensable in view of China's growing influence in willingness to integrate and the recognition of European, 
Asia and Africa. Europe must present itself there as an humanistic values. Lip service is not enough and must 
attractive partner and initiate long-term economic be underpinned by clear actions. These fundamental 
relationships that improve local living standards and also values include equal rights for all genders, democratic 
create new sales markets for the European economy. principles, freedom of opinion, freedom of religion, 
We use our refugee aid effectively where people are in self-determination and responsibility, respect for 
need, especially internally displaced persons. We are minorities and sexual self-determination. We make it 
increasing the budget of the UN Refugee Agency unmistakably clear that religious fundamentalism, such as 
(UNHCR) and making international efforts to improve the Islamism, is incompatible with our secular values and 
living conditions of those seeking protection in the host has no place in our society. Free educational 
countries. opportunities, in particular integration and language 
In order to benefit from migration, we define our courses, are central to integration and must therefore be 
economic needs. Immigration can help to counteract the provided to a greater extent. We not only attach 
shortage of skilled workers. Therefore, anyone importance to vocational qualifications, but also to 
who is in a position to meet such a need, for example teaching the cultures and lifestyles of the host 
by working as a skilled worker in Europe, should have the country. All-day schools and early childhood education 
opportunity to apply their qualifications in the European with special integration programs are particularly important 
labor market. That is why we recognize more international here. Another focus is the rapid integration
qualifications and specifically simplify immigration into 
our labour market.
11 MIGRATION & INTEGRATION
of migrants into the labor market. Finally, we emphasize 
the importance of active participation in social life. In 
order to promote integration into local community life, 
we provide financial support so that all immigrants 
have the opportunity to play an active role. You can find 
all of our positions in the area of Democracy & Home 
Affairs at pdh.eu/democracy-home-affairs.
Summary
• Commitment to the right to asylum
Rejection of upper limits and clear position on the right to asylum and the Geneva Refugee Convention
and the right to subsidiary protection
• Strict EU external border controls
Ensuring Europe's security and curbing illegal immigration, while intra-European
Border controls can be avoided
• Joint Office for Refugees and Migration
Central coordination of European refugee policy and introduction of automated, transparent preliminary 
examinations of asylum applications
• Fair distribution in the EU
Establishment of a system for the fair distribution of refugees and asylum seekers throughout the EU,
to relieve the burden on primary countries of arrival
• Clear criteria for third countries
Introduction of uniform criteria for determining safe countries of origin and development of repatriation agreements
• Combating the causes of flight
actively combating factors such as climate change and a lack of economic prospects; expanding partnerships 
between the EU and other nations
• Integration through education
Modernization of the education system, access to education for all and prevention of parallel societies through 
early childhood education and all-day schools
• Principle of "support and challenge"
Granting rights and equal opportunities for migrants while at the same time demanding integration
willingness and recognition of fundamental European values
• Active social participation
Promoting the active participation of migrants in social life
12 MIGRATION & INTEGRATION
Economic
Recreation
The European economy is the engine of our and the country in which the company is based. This 
prosperity and our welfare state. This prosperity ensures that companies contribute appropriately to tax 
can be increased and the recovery of the European revenues, which in turn creates room for tax cuts for the 
economy secured with smart political decisions. In the general public or investments in social welfare, 
midst of global changes, we are facing urgent challenges. education, health and defense.
Tax avoidance must be consistently combated in Becoming a leader in developing solutions to the 
order to ensure fair competitive conditions and fair challenges of our time is crucial for the recovery of the 
revenues for all member states. The transformation European economy. Europe must reduce its CO2 
towards a CO2 neutral economy and adapting to the emissions and at the same time prepare for the already 
already noticeable consequences of climate change are key unavoidable consequences of climate change. These 
tasks that we face. challenges also present economic opportunities. The 
Rapid digitalization and technological innovations offer technologies that are currently being developed are of 
immense opportunities, but also entail risks. Uniform, great importance to us. We are therefore committed to 
reformed standards in dealing with public debt are ensuring that they are developed and produced in Europe 
necessary to ensure financial stability and at the same in order to minimize our dependence on totalitarian 
time enable investment for future challenges. Our aim is regimes such as China and endangered 
to seize these opportunities and ensure that no one is democracies such as the USA. With targeted 
left behind. Globalization, despite its benefits, also investment in the research, development and application 
brings with it geopolitical challenges and dependencies of climate-friendly technologies, Europe can dominate a 
in supply chains. It is therefore important to strengthen new economic sector, combat climate change and 
our resilience while reaping the benefits of global trade. protect itself from its effects.
In view of these challenges, we are committed to a 
socio-ecological market economy based on human Globalization, despite its benefits, also brings 
values such as individual freedom and fair with it geopolitical challenges and dependencies 
compensation. The overarching goal is a market economy in supply chains. It is therefore important to 
that is geared towards the well-being of all and strengthen our resilience and at the same time 
protects the livelihoods of future generations. By 
joining forces and sharing common values, Europe will benefit from the advantages of global trade.
shape a future in which prosperity, sustainability and social 
justice go hand in hand. A secure and affordable energy supply is essential for 
For the recovery of the European economy, we are giving the recovery of the European economy. However, the 
integrated European electricity grid, an impressive 
all economic players active in Europe a fair share of the technical achievement, is facing challenges due to 
public finances. Tax avoidance not only contradicts rising energy prices, increasing electricity demand 
democratic principles, but also threatens social justice. In and the need for decarbonization.
fact, the EU member states, and therefore its citizens, lose 
almost one trillion euros a year through tax evasion. In To meet these challenges, we are focusing on the 
response, we are creating a European authority expansion of low-CO2 energy sources and promoting 
aimed at combating tax evasion and eliminating tax innovative energy storage technologies. These measures 
loopholes and establishing a consistent European tax balance out fluctuations in the electricity grid and 
system. Furthermore, we are implementing a global increase security of supply. At the same time, we are 
minimum tax of 15 % on corporate profits in order to investing in research and development in order to make 
minimize tax avoidance and prevent tax dumping our energy system future-proof and sustainable. In this 
between countries. Countries that do not comply with this way, we are ensuring a fair and sustainable energy 
minimum rate will be subject to sanctions. When it supply for future generations. Rising energy prices can 
comes to taxation, we attach great importance to ensuring lead to social imbalances and put a strain on the 
that it is shared fairly between the country in which the European economy. A reform of the European electricity 
profit is generated and the country in which it is earned. market is therefore crucial.
14 ECONOMIC RECOVERY
Our goal is a transparent, cost-efficient market that especially the one and two-cent coins. Their production 
offers consumers planning security and meets climate costs exceed their face value and their purchasing 
protection targets. By strengthening European power is minimal. Inflation further exacerbates this 
emissions trading, we can achieve these goals in line problem. While some EU countries already apply 
with the market. A revision of the market design, rounding rules to the nearest 5 cents, others do not. To 
including the merit order principle, is essential. Some create clarity and consistency across the euro area, we 
of the revenue from emissions trading should flow back to are campaigning for the abolition of these coins.
the population as a climate bonus in order to boost the How we deal with public debt is crucial for the recovery 
economy and increase acceptance of climate policy. of the European economy. The current Maastricht 
It is crucial for the recovery of the European economy to criteria, which limit this debt, are based more on 
catch up with digitalization and transform Europe political decisions than on sound economic 
into a pioneering continent for digital infrastructure. knowledge. That is why we are reforming these criteria by 
Investments in digitalization strengthen Europe as a scientifically reviewing and adapting them. Taxpayers' 
business location and offer people new opportunities to money and new debt must be used efficiently and 
overcome everyday challenges. A particular focus of invested specifically in future-oriented projects such as 
our investments lies in the research and development of infrastructure, digitalization and sustainable energy 
artificial intelligence (AI). AI has the potential to development. This benefits European citizens twice 
bring about revolutionary changes in areas such as over, as it limits debt on the one hand and invests in 
health diagnostics (through early detection of diseases) important areas that promote prosperity on the other.
or energy efficiency (through optimized control of smart We rely on robust and resilient supply chains for the 
grids). recovery of the European economy. European companies 
are heavily integrated into international production 
It is crucial for the recovery of the European and trade networks, which opens up opportunities but 
economy to catch up with digitalization and also entails risks. One example of this is the 
transform Europe into a pioneering continent dependence on rare earths from certain countries, 
which are essential for many technologies. Another 
for digital infrastructure. example is the dependence on pharmaceuticals and 
medical products, which are often produced outside 
Modern working conditions are another key item on our Europe. In times of geopolitical tensions or global 
agenda. We create incentives for flexible working models pandemics, this can lead to bottlenecks. To counter 
such as working from home and remote working in such risks, we diversify our sources of supply and 
order to meet the demands of today's working world. We promote the extraction and processing of critical raw 
also attach importance to shaping the structural change materials and the production of essential medicines directly 
associated with digitalization in a socially responsible in the EU. In order to meet the challenges of globalization, 
way, particularly when dealing with technologies such as we are strengthening our resilience and at the same time 
AI. In addition to software development, we are focusing on fair competitive conditions.
promoting the development and production of 
hardware such as computer chips in Europe. This To boost the European economy, we are strengthening its 
step not only makes economic sense, but also serves backbone: entrepreneurship. Performance and 
to ensure independence from increasingly uncertain initiative must be rewarded in order to help Europe achieve 
international supply chains. new growth and offer everyone the chance to advance. 
High taxes and excessive bureaucracy must not be 
We are driving forward the modernization and allowed to slow down entrepreneurs. Market 
digitalization of payment traffic to boost the European regulations must not be barriers to market entry for 
economy. Secure digital payment methods facilitate start-ups and thus protective walls for corporations.
trade and offer consumers flexibility. We are committed to 
ensuring that card payments and digital payments, for Small and medium-sized enterprises and innovative start-
example with smart phones, are widely possible and ups in particular are bringing a breath of fresh air to the 
accepted throughout Europe. The issue of small coin market, challenging established players and creating 
denominations is also relevant in this context, new jobs.
15 ECONOMIC RECOVERY
With their creativity and ambition, they make a to also promote funded pension provision. Direct banks 
significant contribution to social prosperity. Our and neobrokers give consumers better opportunities to 
support for these players includes financial support, invest in the capital market at low cost and to become 
facilitating investment and reducing bureaucracy. We informed investors through free financial education. We 
simplify and promote the participation of employees in reject the currently planned ban on "payment for order 
companies and encourage companies to offer their flow". This enables securities trading at favorable 
employees this opportunity. We therefore also support conditions even for small investors without large trading 
the jointly democratic legal form of the cooperative. volumes. A ban would mean the end of neobrokers and 
This turns employees into co-entrepreneurs, giving damage the share culture. Young people in particular, 
them a say and a fair share in the joint success. In who use this form of retirement provision, would be 
addition, social security is guaranteed by a basic harmed. Instead, we are calling for more transparency 
income to be gradually introduced. This contributes to regarding the remuneration of neobrokers.
social stability, supports education and training, enables These developments democratize the capital market 
artists, for example, to pursue their passion, reduces and enable citizens to build up assets over the long 
poverty and creates incentives for innovation and term. As long-term investing over more than 15 years is 
entrepreneurship. a proven strategy, we are increasing the saver's lump 
For the recovery of the European economy, we support sum across Europe to EUR 3,000, adjusted for inflation. 
citizens who want to live self-determined lives and take This allows small investors to benefit optimally from their 
advantage of the opportunities offered by our economic investments. You can find all our positions in the 
system. This includes small investors who want to Economy & Taxes section at pdh.eu/economic-taxes.
provide for their future or strive for financial freedom. In 
view of the uncertain outlook for pensions, it is important to 
provide not only state
Summary
• Fair public finances
Closing tax evasion and loopholes for all economic players
• European Tax Authority
Combating tax avoidance and introducing a global minimum tax
• Climate investments
Promotion of climate-friendly technologies and measures
• Energy supply
Safeguarding through low-CO2 energy sources, innovative technologies and revision of the merit order principle
• Digitization offensive
Focus on AI and hardware production Payment transactions of the future: modernization and abolition of small 
denomination coins
• Maastricht reform
Revision of debt criteria and investment in forward-looking projects
• Robust EU supply chains
Strengthening the production of critical goods within the EU
• Entrepreneurial innovation
Supporting start-ups and introducing a basic income
• Small investor promotion
Increase in the saver's allowance and prevention of the payment-for-order-flow ban
16 ECONOMIC RECOVERY
European sovereignty & 
cooperation
27 member states, around 450 million interest of the general public. EU citizens must always 
inhabitants and a gross domestic product that be able to see which players have a financial influence 
rivals that of China - all united by a common set of on political decisions. We are optimizing the EU's 
values: that is the European Union. Its motto i s : "United in information portal and making it more user-friendly so that 
diversity". We live by this principle. At the moment, citizens have easier and more intuitive access to relevant 
however, Europe often plays small. information.
The EU is failing to pursue a coherent foreign policy and For true transparency, we are reforming the provisions 
assert its interests internationally due to disputes and on the "legislative footprint". In the annex to reports on 
blockades by some member states. Only a Europe that legislative texts, this lists all lobbyists with whom a 
stands together can present a united front to the outside member of parliament was in contact during the drafting 
world and take its place on the world stage. This also of a law. We are abolishing the current practice for 
includes expanding protection against divisive external lobbyists to choose their own "registration category". 
influences, such as those recently exerted by Donald Finally, we emphasize the protection of whistleblowers 
Trump or Vladimir Putin. The people themselves are from reprisals where there is a justified public interest. In 
crucial to this. They shape the continent of Europe, the these cases, the public interest outweighs the welfare of 
direction of its politics and international coexistence. In the state or private institution.
this chapter, we outline our goals for the next steps in 
the development of the European Union, which we will In order to strengthen European cohesion, we 
pursue in the European Parliament: how we can are giving the Parliament elected by the citizens 
strengthen Europe's unity, secure its sovereignty on the of Europe more rights.
world stage and implement a common foreign policy.
In order to strengthen European cohesion, we are giving In order to secure Europe's sovereignty globally, we 
the Parliament elected by the citizens of Europe more are implementing a common foreign policy. Europe is 
rights. Until now, the European Parliament has only currently economically dependent on states that act in an 
had a very limited right of initiative. We are extending authoritarian manner and disregard human rights. It is 
this to a fundamental right to introduce legislative unacceptable that products that are consumed and 
initiatives. This will allow citizens to participate much used in Europe were produced using forced labor, by 
more directly in European legislative projects. children or under other inhumane circumstances. In 
We are ending the absurd coexistence of two order to live up to our responsibility, we enforce 
parliamentary seats in Brussels and Strasbourg, compliance with human rights with our trading 
which not only costs at least 100 million euros a year, but partners. All our external and economic policy activities 
also involves enormous logistical challenges, the monthly are intended to help improve the situation of people in 
transportation of vast amounts of material and the these countries.
movement of thousands of people, as well as causing We are introducing an EU-wide supply chain law that 
enormous amounts of CO2 every year, in favour of the obliges companies to comply with social, human rights, 
Brussels location. In addition, we are reducing the environmental and climate-friendly standards throughout 
unanimity principle in the Council of the European their entire value chain. We will sanction companies that 
Union to a minimum. A qualified majority will then apply do not meet these standards. In this way, citizens can 
to most political decisions. This will increase the EU's be sure when buying and consuming products that they 
efficiency and ability to act. meet basic ethical standards. In the long term, we are 
In order to strengthen European cohesion, we are striving to reduce our global dependency by becoming a 
increasing transparency and thus creating new trust leader in the development of future technologies. To 
in the institutions of the European Union. This includes this end, we invest heavily in research and development. 
We are convinced that the most advanced countries will 
mandatory registration of all political actors in the lobby 
prevail in global competition and thus be able to initiate 
register. We are abolishing existing exemptions for relationships that do justice to their own interests. We must 
religious and political actors in order to ensure complete be one of these countries. Economic strength is 
transparency. We are reforming the regulations on party essential for this. We describe how we are giving the 
donations. In doing so, we are balancing the protection European economy new impetus in the "Economic 
of the privacy of the individual and the recovery" chapter.
18 EUROPEAN SOVEREIGNTY & COOPERATION
In order to secure Europe's sovereignty globally, we are We promote student autonomy to a greater extent than 
shaping further-reaching and comprehensive is currently the case in European education systems, for 
development cooperation with countries in the example through earlier and more extensive 
Global South. China has also recently been able to opportunities for students to design their own timetables 
expand its influence in this area. We present ourselves and subject combinations. We are harmonizing 
to the Global South as an attractive and reliable partner educational standards, thereby achieving Europe-wide 
that keeps its promises and supports sustainable recognition for them. We promote regular exchange 
development based on the principle of helping people to programs for students and teachers, also for the 
help themselves locally. This creates new sales markets purpose of exchanging teaching methods, and lifelong 
and potential research locations for us and improves learning.
relations with young and unestablished democracies. In 
order to make development cooperation more efficient, In order to secure Europe's sovereignty globally, 
we are gradually transferring bilateral state development we are striving for greater integration of the 
cooperation from the individual member states to the EU 
as a whole. The member states should consistently existing national armies in the EU and are 
adhere to the 0.7% of GDP set for development focusing on the creation of a common 
cooperation. A basic democratic orientation is a European army in the long term.
fundamental condition for any cooperation that serves 
the further development of a country and its society. To strengthen European cohesion, we connect the 
Humanitarian aid is not affected by this. people of Europe. This includes the student 
In order to secure Europe's sovereignty globally, we are exchange programs described above and an expansion 
striving for greater integration of the existing national of the Erasmus+ program. We are establishing a 
armies in the EU and are focusing on the creation of a Europe-wide, discounted European rail ticket and 
common European army in the long term. There are expanding the Interrail offer. We are also establishing 
27 national armies within the EU, each with its own media partnerships between other countries along 
structures, weapons systems and training. A more the lines of the Franco-German broadcaster arte. We are 
integrated military structure would not only be more cost- also reforming and bundling public media institutions 
efficient, but also more effective in terms of defense and into a European institution with various sub-houses.
international peacekeeping. It would also reduce military This public broadcaster should exclusively pursue an 
dependence on the USA and enable Europe to do more educational and informational mission within the 
justice to its contribution to transatlantic burden- framework of critical and neutral reporting and - in 
sharing. In order to live up to our global responsibility, contrast to the German ÖRR - not dedicate its main output 
we must be in a position to independently counter to entertainment. Together we are shaping an 
security-relevant trouble spots in the long term. informed, educated and globally neutral Europe. You 
Particularly in the immediate geographical vicinity of can find all our positions on Europe in general at 
Russia, it is important to represent our own geopolitical pdh.eu/Europe, and all our positions on foreign policy 
interests as a sovereign defense actor. and defense at pdh.eu/gsp/foreign-policy-defense. 
In order to strengthen European cohesion, we are We present our long-term vision for the continent at 
developing Europe into a continent of first-class, free pdh.eu/bundesrepublikeuropa.
education for all. The independence and
19 EUROPEAN SOVEREIGNTY & COOPERATION
Summary
• Strengthening the European Parliament
Extension of the European Parliament's right of initiative, ending the dual structure of parliamentary seats, focus on 
Brussels, reduction of the unanimity principle in the EU Council, introduction of qualified majority voting
• Increasing transparency
Mandatory registration of all political players in the lobby register, reform of party donation regulations, 
optimization of the EU information portal, reform of the "legislative footprint", protection of whistleblowers
• Common foreign policy
Enforcement of human rights with trading partners, introduction of an EU-wide supply chain law to ensure ethical 
production standards
• Development cooperation
Intensification of cooperation with countries of the Global South, sustainable development and
Helping people to help themselves
• Defense and security
Integration of national armies, goal of a common European army, reduction of military
Dependence on the USA
• Education
Developing into a continent of first-class, free education, promoting the independence and independence of 
students, standardizing educational standards, promoting student exchange programs
• Connecting the people of Europe
Expansion of the Erasmus+ program, introduction of a European ticket for rail transport, expansion of media 
partnerships and reform of public media institutions
20 EUROPEAN SOVEREIGNTY & COOPERATION
Digitization &
Data protection
The potential of digitalization is enormous. It We use open source solutions to shape Europe's 
makes our everyday and working lives easier, makes digital future. The accessibility of open source products 
our administrations more efficient and can make political creates trust and allows everyone to benefit from them. 
processes more citizen-friendly. It has the potential to Interested parties can transparently understand which 
make life easier and at the same time promote data is collected and processed. This is why we 
ecological and economic sustainability. In areas such as support the use of open source software and are gradually 
research, health and safety, digitalization offers switching to it in public administration and educational 
opportunities to significantly improve our standard of living. institutions. In principle, we also promote freely accessible 
We are therefore placing a particular focus on software. We examine the use of software that is not 
researching and developing further technologies. freely accessible in terms of its appropriateness and 
But with these advances also come challenges: avoid dependencies on individual providers. In addition, we 
Protecting data in digital health records, ensuring provide targeted funding for the development of 
security and integrity on online platforms and integrating further open source projects that benefit the general 
artificial intelligence into the world of work are just public.
some of the issues that arise. There is an urgent need for In order to shape Europe's digital future, we are 
political regulation to ensure that digitalization reforming copyright and quotation law and 
progresses in line with the values and rights of citizens. standardizing it across Europe. This should reward 
creativity and innovation without hindering progress or 
Upload filters, which are used as a means of placing a disproportionate burden on private 
state censorship individuals. We therefore advocate a reduction in the 
could be used, we reject this. copyright protection period to ten years after the death 
of the author instead of the current 70 years. We 
In order to shape Europe's digital future, we guarantee make works whose copyrights are owned by the state 
every citizen reliable Internet access and seamless available to all citizens free of charge.
mobile phone coverage. Despite our global network, We limit the profit-oriented warning practice for private use 
there are still deficits in some rural areas. By expanding of copyrighted works. We reject upload filters that 
this infrastructure in a targeted manner, we are improving could be used as a means of state censorship. We 
the quality of life in these regions. Today, mobile Internet are also opposed to censorship in entertainment media, 
access is almost as basic as electricity and water. That particularly in the case of video games. Online offeringsE 
is why we promote tariffs that do not have data limits or should be accessible throughout Europe without geo-
minimum terms and that are based on actual blocking.
consumption. In order to shape Europe's digital future, we are 
With a robust digital infrastructure, we are laying the promoting flexible working models such as working 
foundations for numerous benefits: from the from home and remote working. These models offer 
sustainable use of resources and democratic participation citizens more freedom and adaptability in their 
to innovative education and self-determination. To professional activities. The entire world of work is 
make this vision a reality, we are making targeted undergoing fundamental structural change. We see it as 
investments in our infrastructure, offering providers our task to actively support and drive this process 
financial incentives and reducing unnecessary forward. At the same time, we ensure that no one is left 
regulations. behind. To this end, we facilitate and promote professional 
In order to shape Europe's digital future, we offer all development and further training. This enables all citizens 
European citizens free education and training to adapt to the changing requirements of the labor market.
opportunities with the latest digital technology. To Increasing automation could mean that fewer workers 
this end, we ensure that state-run further education are needed. In this case, we will use targeted redistribution 
institutions are equipped with the latest hardware and measures to ensure that gainful employment is not 
software across the board. It is important to us not necessary in order to enjoy prosperity. The basic 
only to provide access to technology, but also to income mentioned above should also serve the 
promote critical and responsible use. This includes purpose of social protection here. We see artificial 
educating people about digital phenomena such as intelligence not only as a technology that generates 
filter bubbles, disinformation and conspiracy theories. prosperity, but also as an opportunity to reduce the 
We are also firmly integrating artificial intelligence into workload of the workforce.
the school curriculum.
22 DIGITIZATION & DATA PROTECTION
society. Our long-term goal is to create a society in which and are available for free use by all citizens. This also 
work becomes increasingly optional. promotes citizen research and increases transparency 
By shaping Europe's digital future, we are opening up in science. In this way, we are opposing the current 
new avenues in the fight against crime and criminal practice of fee-based journals and their access 
prosecution. We are implementing standardized systems restrictions such as paywalls, for which we will find 
for electronic data processing, the exchange of solutions that benefit science and citizens.
information and the processing of specific incidents In order to protect the data of European citizens in the 
and cases. These measures promote efficient digital age, we are establishing uniform data 
cooperation and networking between police and security protection guidelines for all security authorities in 
authorities throughout Europe. In addition, almost all Europe. When regulating the powers of intelligence 
administrative procedures will become superfluous for services, we place the highest value on data protection 
Europe's citizens. To this end, we are expanding secure, and prevent the arbitrary collection of personal data. We 
digital administrative services. reject restrictions on digital communication, in particular 
In order to protect Europe in the digital age, we are special access by state services to encrypted 
subjecting critical infrastructure such as energy and messages. We also reject the use of widespread 
water supply, hospitals, police, financial authorities and biometric surveillance technologies, as such a practice 
satellites to the strictest security standards. We attach is at odds with our socially liberal values. Every citizen 
great importance to ensuring that the technology and should have the right to obtain information about their 
equipment is sourced from European providers data stored in police databases, with exceptions only 
wherever possible. By further developing modern applying in cases of public safety.
technologies and strengthening our intelligence In order to protect the data of European citizens in the 
services, we are able to prevent and counter potential digital age, we enable informational self-
threats. determination, which we consider to be an essential 
In order to make science and knowledge available to part of individual freedom. Only those who are not 
all European citizens, we rely on a consistent open monitored can develop freely. Every citizen in Europe 
data strategy. Publicly relevant data will be made should retain full control over their data, regardless of 
accessible free of charge. To this end, we are where it i s collected and processed. We firmly reject 
establishing a central platform that stores and provides measures such as data retention, which place citizens 
extensive scientific data sets. We are making content under blanket suspicion in order to access their data. 
financed by public funds - whether from public media You can find all of our positions on digitalization and 
or research institutions - permanently accessible network policy at pdh.eu/gsp/digitalization-network-
throughout the EU, free of charge and without bureaucratic policy.
hurdles. Our aim is to promote Open Science throughout 
Europe. This means that research results, data and 
laboratory reports are made public.
23 DIGITIZATION & DATA PROTECTION
Summary
• Digital infrastructure
Reliable Internet access and seamless mobile connectivity for all, abolition of data limits and minimum terms for 
tariffs, investment in the expansion of digital infrastructure and reduction of regulations
• Education & training
Comprehensive equipment with modern hardware and software, integration of artificial intelligence into the education 
curriculum, education about digital phenomena and responsible use
• Open Source & Software
Promotion and conversion to open source solutions in public institutions, support for the development of open 
source projects
• Copyright and quotation law
Reform and standardization of copyright law in Europe, shortening of the copyright protection period, rejection 
of upload filters and geoblocking
• Flexible working models
Promotion of home office and remote work, support for professional development and further training
• Crime prevention & law enforcement
standardized systems for electronic data processing in Europe, efficient networking of police and security authorities
• Critical infrastructure protection
strict security standards for critical infrastructures, technology and equipment preferably from European suppliers
• Open Data & Science
Introduction of a consistent open data strategy, promotion of open science and citizen research
• Data protection & civil rights
uniform data protection guidelines for security authorities, rejection of comprehensive biometric
Surveillance, guaranteeing the informational self-determination of citizens
24 DIGITIZATION & DATA PROTECTION
Closing words
These are our ideas for the five central topics for the Europe of 
the coming years. In the long term, we are pursuing an even 
more ambitious goal:
The completion of European unity in the form of a federal 
state. But there is still a long way to go until then. The task now 
is to tackle people's everyday problems with pragmatic policies 
and offer them solutions. You can find our complete vision at 
pdh.eu/program.
We are convinced that Europe needs a new political style 
far removed from populism and old-fashioned trench 
warfare. A vote for the PdH will give you a breath of 
fresh air and a strong commitment to social-liberal 
values.
We take your concerns seriously and do not allow 
ourselves to be influenced by those who are the loudest.
We listen to experts and look for socially acceptable 
solutions to the pressing issues of our time.
25 FINAL WORD







 ELECTION PROGRAM 
for the 2024 European elections
Ecological Democratic Party
The nature conservation
Contents
Page 4	1. strengthen and expand democracy
Page	72 For sound national budgets and a fair financial market order
Page	103 Prosperity without the need for growth - global responsibility
Page 15	4. respect planetary boundaries -
Protecting nature, climate and biodiversity
Page 20	5. consistent animal welfare -
Animals are our fellow creatures
Page 246	. agriculture and forestry are the basis of our lives Page
297	. consumer protection affects all areas of life Page
338	. making mobility environmentally friendly Page 35	9 Comprehensive energy and resource transition Page 38	10 Minimum standards in social and family policy Page 40	11. education for all areas of life
Page 43	12. work
Fighting the causes of flight - humane asylum and refugee policy
Page 49	14 Life protection and bioethics Safeguarding civil rights, data protection and internal
security in digital progress
Page 59	16. foreign and defense policy
Page	62Our vision: a Europe that protects our livelihoods!
We are convinced Europeans
In Europe with its long common history, in which there were many wars against each other, a nucleus of peaceful coexistence was created with the European Union. The values of the EU, respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities [...] are common to all Member States in a society characterized by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men (Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union). For the Ecological Democratic Party (÷DP), these are the driving force behind its commitment to the EU and Europe as a whole. The EU's goal of promoting peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples (Art. 3 of the Treaty on European Union) is also the goal of the ÷DP. That is why the ÷DP in the European Parliament is committed to the goals described below.
1S.trengthening and expanding democracy
The ÷DP stands for a democratically organized European Union (EU) committed to cultural diversity as the basis for peace, freedom, democracy and respect for human rights in Europe. However, the fact that many citizens identify with the European Union at a distance and lack opportunities for co-determination jeopardizes these foundations. One reason for this is the considerable shortcomings in the current EU treaties. They mean that essential parts of democracy and social achievements are being abandoned. Above all, however, the European institutions (European Council, EU Parliament, Commission, Council of Ministers, etc.) suffer from a lack of democratic legitimacy and transparency.
Precisely because we are convinced of the European idea, we believe that a far-reaching reform of the European Union is urgently needed. This is the only way it can be stabilized and developed further.
Our goal is a European Union that respects and promotes the cultural and linguistic characteristics as well as the economic and social structures of the individual peoples and regions.
We support the development from a mere economic community to a confederation of free, primarily self-governing states and regions1 while respecting common European values.
Respect for human rights, the principles of a free and democratic constitutional state and an ecological and social market economy must be the decisive criteria both for the reform and internal development of the EU and for further EU memberships.
1 https://www.bpb.de/kurz-knapp/lexika/politiklexikon/17431/europa-der-regionen/
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï Abolition of the unanimity principle in the Council and introduction of majority decisions in all EU institutions (majority of nation states and the population).
ï Introduction of binding Europe-wide referendums and referendums.
ï A uniform electoral law for the European Parliament - without blocking clauses.
ï For the European Parliament, the fundamental rights of a democratically elected parliament:
ï The right to formulate laws yourself instead of just voting on the EU Commission's proposals (right of initiative).
ï The right to co-determine the EU's income and expenditure for the competences assigned to it.
ï The right to propose and dismiss commissioners.
ï The right to choose a single seat to end the shuttling between Strasbourg and Brussels and the waste of taxpayers' money.
ï Control of the European Commission by the European Parliament.
ï Limitation of EU competence: What can be sensibly regulated at local, regional or Member State level should not be transferred to the EU (principle of subsidiarity).
ï European law may not worsen existing national law (social, ecological and democratic standards) in individual member states (prohibition of deterioration).
ï Transparency through a comprehensive European right to freedom of information at all political levels.
ï Easy-to-find, comprehensible and accessible provision of all EU documents that are not necessarily subject to confidentiality in all official EU languages on the Internet.
For sound national budgets
and a fair financial market order
The preservation of the natural foundations of life is the basis of all future prosperity. Social justice is the prerequisite for social peace. A good regulatory framework for the market economy enables people to develop economically and culturally. We are committed to an ecological and social market economy that deserves its name.
The current economic approach of overexploitation of nature accepts the destruction of our livelihoods. It decouples economic activities from their actual purpose: to serve life and the common good, i.e. to create a good life for all.
The global fight against global warming requires limiting the power of fossil fuel companies.
The misdirection caused by decoupled financial markets and lobbying in the EU is promoting the privatization of services of general interest, infrastructure and public services. They lead to ever more undemocratic transfers of power to the EU. We reject this development.
The ECB's purchase of government debt has reached over three trillion euros. The money supply has been greatly expanded. A sustainable financial order must be established in the EU. EU financial policy must also counter inflation.
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï Commercial and investment banks must be separated. Short selling must be banned. Ban on speculative transactions for lending commercial banks.
ï There must be no more bank bailouts at state expense.
ï The ECB program to purchase government bonds must be ended.
ï The EU now continues to borrow via EU bonds2 , but has no tax revenue of its own. The ÷DP is therefore calling for EU taxes to be levied to finance these EU funds. Only states that levy EU taxes for this purpose should be entitled to receive these funds.
ï The unanimity rule in tax matters in the EU Council is blocking progress in the fight against tax avoidance. It should be abolished in order to make the EU more capable of acting.
ï A single currency requires a single financial policy in the eurozone. This requires democratic control by a democratically legitimized body made up of MEPs from the eurozone. To this end, these MEPs form a Euro Parliament. This elects one representative each for finance, economy, environment and social affairs from among its members. These four form a Senate, which has a right of proposal and veto on all issues relating to the eurozone. If the Council of Ministers fails to reach an agreement on issues relating exclusively to the eurozone, it is replaced by a 2/3 majority decision of the Euro Parliament on the proposal of the Senate. In this way, blockades by member states that do not belong to the eurozone can be resolved by means of a regulated procedure.
ï EU-wide minimum tax rates for corporate profits and private income must be implemented consistently. Progressive income tax must be retained in the EU. It is the financial basis for financing the welfare state.
ï Intra-European tax havens must be immediately and consistently
2 The EU fund "Recovery and Resilience Facility (ARF)" will be used by the EU to raise joint European bonds on the capital market. These joint EU debts are to be repaid by the member states from 2028 to 2058. To this end, they must draw up recovery and resilience plans (ARP plans). The "NextGenerationEU" (NGEU) financial assistance program will be financed from ARF funds.
to dry up. Profits should always be taxed in the countries in which they are generated. All companies in the EU must be encouraged to pay appropriate taxes.
ï Corrupt companies must be excluded from public contracts.
ï An EU financial transaction tax should be introduced in order to make the perpetrators of financial crises pay a share of the costs incurred.
ï The CO2 border carbon adjustment tax (CBAM) serves to ensure fair competition between companies inside and outside the EU: imported products are put on an equal footing with production in the EU in terms of CO2 pricing. The scope of CBAM should be extended to include imported meat, for example. In addition, this border adjustment must be further expanded both in the assessment basis (full CO2 coverage or products produced with CO2 emissions) and in the tax rate. This tax rate must be continuously increased to such an extent that CO2 pricing within the EU can be adjusted to the level necessary to achieve the EU's climate protection targets. The CO2 border adjustment tax should also be used as a model for further raw material and emissions pricing (environmental taxes). The tax revenue from CBAM should be allocated to the importing member states. The member states themselves decide to what extent other levies are reduced in return (e.g. ancillary wage costs or the labor factor) and how much is given back to the citizens (eco-bonus).
Prosperity without the need for growth - Global responsibility
The ecological-social market economy sets clear priorities: We all live in this world and of this world, are part of the whole of this world with its nature and its climate. That is why the top priority must also be ecology - protecting nature and the environment and saving the climate.
We must stop the overexploitation of our natural resources. In an eco-social market economy, the costs of damage caused by environmental destruction and increasing climate extremes must also be included in the pricing of products. Then environmental destruction becomes uneconomical. Only cost transparency in this area creates fair competitive conditions for responsibly operating companies. Economical use of resources, repair and recycling must be worthwhile again. To this end, work should be gradually relieved of costs and the consumption of energy and raw materials made more expensive in return. The goal is a largely circular economy that makes do solely with the resources that the earth and sun provide each year.
We need more regionalization instead of an expansion of global trade in order to reduce transport costs and environmental pollution and to strengthen stability in crises. The goal is not isolationism, but trade that is geared towards social and ecological benefits. A regional supply of food and economic goods leads to sustainable economic activity, short distances, low traffic volumes and, at the same time, jobs close to home.
The gap between rich and poor shows the social contrasts in our society. However, the protests against the inequality of income and wealth do not lead to a sustainable regulatory policy, but rather to an economic policy that promotes the interests of capital investors and global investors.
of large corporations. Large parts of humanity must live in poverty and without hope. The lack of consideration for the environment and the climate will not only disrupt our livelihoods, but also lead to catastrophic shortages and social upheaval.
Environmental or social issues are usually treated as secondary. Society then usually has to pay for the damage. This contradicts the spirit of the common good. All economic activity must be geared towards the common good of all: Our goal is to reduce the ecological footprint of individuals, companies and states. We must not consume more than the resources this earth provides each year. The certification of as many institutions as possible according to the rules of the Economy for the Common Good is an important goal in order to demonstrate the comparability of compliance with ecological standards.
The ÷DP is committed to the ideas and goals of the post-growth economy and the principle that "less is more". The goal is prosperity that is not reduced to purely material values, but includes human values. We want to make a good life possible for everyone with less material effort, which is why the circular economy should be promoted.
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï Prioritizing the protection of the environment, the preservation of biodiversity and the implementation of the climate transition with the aim of achieving climate neutrality by 2030, as well as the effective monitoring of the necessary implementation steps to achieve this.
ï A harmonization of employment, social and environmental standards in the EU. The ÷DP is calling for a public interest test to be carried out before a loan is granted.
ï An adequate basic income for people throughout Europe,
who have no income of their own. For us, this includes children, parents, carers, those unable to work and, where applicable, pensioners. The amount of an adequate basic income must be aligned with the economic circumstances of the individual nation states.
ï Companies that are particularly committed to the common good in social and ecological terms and respect human rights are to be promoted.
ï Decentralized, small-scale structures should be promoted wherever it makes sense. This is why regionality must become a necessary basic requirement for public tenders in the EU.
ï Trade agreements must not prevent municipalities and regions from specifically promoting local economic cycles, e.g. by awarding public contracts.
ï Free trade agreements must become fair trade agreements that promote both biodiversity protection and minimum social standards. To this end, we need enforceable climate protection and sustainability clauses with sanctionable environmental, nature, animal and human rights standards. This must apply to agreements that are currently being negotiated, but also to those that have already been negotiated, such as CETA and TiSA. Free trade agreements must also be based on compliance with planetary boundaries. The European precautionary principle must not be weakened by these agreements. The establishment of private arbitration tribunals for the binding settlement of disputes between private investors and states favors large international corporations and their influence on legislation in the EU states. We therefore reject parallel justice through private arbitration courts implemented through trade agreements. The existing public courts are sufficient for the protection of investments. Negotiations on trade agreements must be conducted with maximum transparency and the involvement of civil society.
ï We must move away from trade liberalization towards sustainable trade in raw materials. Economic interests in the extraction of raw materials must no longer be separated from social and ecological interests in the extraction of raw materials. The sustainable extraction of raw materials must be a prerequisite for trade in them and for investment in this trade. There must also be no one-sided orientation of economic policy towards the interests of EU industry; instead, local interests in developing countries, e.g. those of indigenous peoples, must also be taken into account. The EU's economic policy must pursue an integrative approach.
ï European antitrust law must be strengthened and consistently enforced in order to prevent the concentration of economic power at the expense of the common good.
ï Public services of general interest must be effectively protected from commercial exploitation interests. Access to clean water, healthy food, adequate housing, energy, communication, transportation, education, health and culture must not be impaired by trade agreements.
ï Abolition of all environmentally and climate-damaging subsidies. Subsidies for harmful, environmentally damaging and water- intensive technologies must be ended.
ï The EU emissions trading system and the carbon border tax (CBAM) are intended to encourage investment in low-emission technologies. European emissions trading is the core of EU climate protection policy in the energy sector. Full auctioning of emission allowances enforces the polluter-pays principle and must be extended to other sectors. The revenues must flow into the transformation towards a climate-neutral society. Their revenues must not be used for fossil fuels or nuclear power plants (NPPs).
ï EU industrial policy must massively promote the expansion of renewable energies and the development of a hydrogen economy with EU funds. No money should flow into the financing of nuclear power plants.
ï The EU supply chain law must prescribe high ecological and social standards. The import of goods into the EU that violate these standards must be banned in principle and extended to all companies that are subject to financial reporting obligations. The burden of proof must lie with the company to prove whether it has acted responsibly or not.
ï In addition to the import of raw materials, energy sources, textiles and food, financial products must also be included in this supply chain law. The international financial market has so far eluded direct control. Financial transactions on an OTC basis must be processed via futures exchanges and their transaction chain must be checked3 .
ï For a fairer global distribution of prosperity, the EU should pay subsidies to regional social systems in the countries of the global South that support education and healthcare systems, the reduction of the ecological footprint and sustainable regional agriculture and reforestation (according to the Earth4All model).
ï Ban on price-driving speculation with agricultural commodities. Effective control by a supervisory authority, which should also intervene preventively.
3 OTC trading: Large financial transactions are settled directly between banks within certain credit lines. 90 % of all derivatives are traded in this way. In exchange trading, on the other hand, collateral is required in line with the risk. On stock exchanges, prices are officially determined on a daily basis, which are used to calculate the transaction volume, profits and losses. This is not known for OTC transactions. h t t p s : / / d e . wikipedia.org/wiki/Planetare_Grenzen; shortly after this program was adopted, it was published that seven planetary boundaries had already been exceeded: https://www.nature.com/articles/ s41586-023-06083-8
Respecting planetary boundaries - protecting nature, climate and biodiversity
Land sealing, the destruction of natural habitats, the release of chemical substances into the environment and the burning of fossil fuels have not only destroyed many habitats of individual animals and plants, they also threaten the very existence of life on earth. Six planetary boundaries have been massively exceeded in some cases: (1) species extinction, (2) climate overheating, (3) environmental pollution with microplastics and others, (4) over- fertilization with nitrogen and phosphorus, (5) deforestation, grassland conversion and sealing and
(6) Loss of soil moisture4 . This requires a comprehensive turnaround in the use of and pressure on natural resources. The economic, ecological and social aspects of sustainability must finally be given equal importance. The consideration of planetary boundaries, the protection of nature and biodiversity, soil, water, air and climate must be placed on the same level as economic development. The European Union must become a protective union for planet Earth.
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï Implementation of the resolutions of the UN World Conference on Nature (COP15).
ï The goal of climate neutrality by 2030 by ending the use of fossil fuels and subsequently reducing the CO2 content of the atmosphere from the current 420 ppm to the safe level of 350 ppm using natural methods, in particular by consistently protecting and reactivating moors, forests and grassland, by building up humus and, if necessary, introducing biochar (Terra Preta) into arable soils, but without storing CO underground2 .
4 https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planetare_Grenzen; shortly after this program was adopted, it was
published	that	seven	planetary	boundaries	had	already	been	exceeded: https://www.nature.com/articles/ s41586-023-06083-8
ï Recognition of nature as a legal entity in its own right and inclusion of the legal status of nature in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
ï Creation of suitable legal forms for important parts of nature (forests, moors, rivers, etc.) analogous to the European corporate forms for companies, European Company (SE), European Cooperative Society (SCE) and European Economic Interest Grouping (EEIG), so that they can be represented in court.
ï Consistent pursuit of all UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and implementation of existing agreements and directives on environmental protection in the EU.
ï Consistent enforcement of the polluter pays principle for environmental damage, international agreement on corporate responsibility towards nature and guaranteeing corporate liability for damage within the EU and also at international level.
ï Observance and continuous improvement of the right to environmental complaints and information for citizens and civil society.
ï Pricing of environmental use: In addition to the urgent expansion of CO2 pricing, the use of natural resources such as raw materials and land sealing etc. must be reduced by continuously increasing taxes until the prices of all products reflect the true economic, social and ecological costs.
ï Better protection and precautions against hazardous chemicals (e.g. plasticizers in plastics or flame retardants in electrical appliances), rapid additions to the candidate list of particularly hazardous substances in accordance with the REACH regulation, replacement of substances on the Substitute It Now (SIN) list with substances that have been proven to be harmless and a ban on the export of hazardous chemicals.
ï Access to clean and healthy water, securing groundwater recharge, groundwater and water protection: strengthening and consistent implementation of the Water Framework Directive, reconnection of floodplain areas, review of discharge permits into rivers and lakes and the planned expansion of rivers as transport routes, more use of grey water and closed water cycles, conversion of cities into
"Sponge towns". Minimize the impact on the water balance and prioritize local compensation. No industrial settlements in water protection areas.
ï General ban on fracking, also ban on drilling in sensitive areas, except for municipal drinking water supplies and for heat pumps with a heat transfer medium that is not hazardous to water.
ï Soil protection: an EU-wide law to protect the soil. Improvement of soil condition (around 70% of all European soils are in poor condition). An end to the dramatic consumption of land and the progressive sealing of land in Europe with its devastating ecological, urban, social and economic consequences. Obligation to prioritize the use of unused residential, commercial and transport areas in new construction projects. In the event that new land is urgently required, priority must be given to land- saving planning and development, appropriate building materials and construction methods must be used and genuine compensatory measures must be taken. A cap on land consumption in the EU by 2030 and net-zero land take for housing and transport in the EU well before 2050. Better information and training for those responsible at municipal and state level for better soil protection. Right to public participation in spatial planning procedures.
ï Preventive flood protection: Retention of precipitation at the point of impact by unsealing soils, retention basins and designated flood zones.
ï Marine protection: ending overfishing of the oceans, the discharge of (micro)plastics and toxic and radioactive substances and over-fertilization with nitrogen and phosphorus. Research into suitable measures and their implementation to save and clean up the world's oceans.
ï Nature and species protection: Expansion of the protected area landscape (including the designation of new nature conservation areas and national parks), protection of the last European primeval forests. Creation of management plans with conservation goals and measures for Natura 2000 protected areas. Expansion of the protection of endangered species and habitats. Gradual reduction in the use of pesticides in protected areas. Establishment of a functional biotope network system covering at least 15% of the terrestrial area of the member states by 2030. Elimination of enforcement deficits in nature conservation law and better funding and staffing of independent monitoring authorities.
ï Moor protection: Protection of intact and professional rewetting of degraded moors with the aim of restoring peat-forming ecosystems as far as possible. Sustainable management of previously heavily drained peatland soils through peatland- preserving forms of management (e.g. paludiculture5 ). Stronger incentives for peatland protection through agricultural funding policy (CAP). Ban on ploughing up peatland, end peat extraction, restrict the import of peat-containing products and substrates and increase their substitution with more climate-friendly alternatives. Protection of near-natural peatland forests. Rewetting and sustainable management of peatlands used for forestry.
ï Forest protection: Forcing forest conversion to near-natural habitats with site-appropriate tree communities over
5 Paludiculture (from the Latin palus "mire, swamp" and cultura "cultivation") is the agricultural and forestry use of wet moorland sites, e.g. by growing reeds for thatched roofs, cultivating plants to generate energy from biomass or peat mosses as a peat substitute for growing media in horticulture or by grazing water buffalo.
The forest should consist mainly of deciduous and mixed forests with a diverse native flora and fauna and a healthy, species-rich wildlife population. Promotion of soil- and stock-protecting forestry without chemical pesticides and liming. Establishment of healthy, stable and near-natural forests with alternating structurally rich commercial forest zones and management-free natural forest zones (such as primeval forests). Designation of at least 5% of the total forest area as wilderness areas. Protection, maintenance and creation of forest edges and fringes. Protection of unfragmented areas. Creation of green corridors, preservation of old trees and deadwood. Rewarding forest nature conservation measures. Promotion of agroforestry systems6 . Establishing and adequately equipping a European task force to fight large forest fires.
ï Landscape protection: Establishment of hedges, copses and forest islands as ecological stepping stones, also in agricultural areas, through targeted support measures. Preservation and expansion of avenues and rows of trees along roads and country lanes, both inside and outside urban settlements. Promotion of new planting, gap planting and replanting, including through the establishment of a European cultural heritage fund, which also promotes the preservation of all other cultural-historical landscape elements.
6 Agroforestry refers to a (sometimes multi-storey) agricultural production system that combines elements of arable farming and animal husbandry with those of forestry.
Consistent animal welfare - animals are our fellow creatures
True humanity strives for the highest standards of animal welfare. This must become the maxim of European policy wherever animals are concerned: animals have rights and are not commodities! Unfortunately, the importance of animal welfare is low in many European countries. A change in awareness in dealing with our sentient fellow creatures is urgently needed.
Decades of misguided EU subsidy policies have led to the ongoing industrialization of animal husbandry. A focus on growth and the global market as well as statutory minimum standards in livestock farming, which are not based on the needs of the animals, cause millions of systematic animal suffering in European stables. Transporting animals for slaughter for far too long within the EU, a lack of or non-existent control capacities and a completely inadequate infrastructure to unload, feed and house the animals in a barn after transportation cause even more animal suffering on the way to the slaughterhouse. When animals are transported to third countries in the EU, the idea of animal welfare degenerates into a farce.
But sentient beings also suffer every day in research and teaching, in hunting, in circuses and in the keeping of pets and exotic animals, as well as in the trade in animals. Also because the EU fails to act or acts inadequately. This must change!
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï Safeguarding animal rights in accordance with the EU Treaty.
ï Better enforcement and control of compliance with animal welfare in accordance with EU legislation.
ï Appointment of an independent EU Commissioner for Animal Welfare: The concept of animal welfare must become a recognized part of the cultural and legal order of a united Europe.
ï Creation of an EU Animal Welfare Commission, consisting of several representatives from each member state, with the participation of recognized animal welfare associations, to uncover and prevent cruelty to animals, which also acts in an advisory capacity in relevant legislative projects.
ï Introduction of a Europe-wide right of action for recognized animal welfare associations.
ï Prohibition of forms of husbandry that lead to animals suffering avoidable stress, pain and resulting diseases. Species- appropriate and behaviorally appropriate husbandry and feeding as a maxim in all EU husbandry regulations and in the common agricultural policy.
ï Immediate ban on chick shredding, castration without anaesthesia and dehorning of calves without anaesthesia. No invasive procedures (e.g. beak trimming, tail docking) without medical indication in individual cases.
ï Introduction of mandatory farming labeling (husbandry, transport, slaughter) for all foods of animal origin, which also applies to ingredients of animal origin in processed products.
ï Ban on the trade and sale of agricultural products whose production violates applicable EU law or for which there is no farming label.
ï Immediate abolition of all EU subsidies for animal transportation!
ï No transport of animals for slaughter within the EU over 100 kilometers.
ï Protecting small, regional abattoirs and butchers from over- regulation by the EU.
ï Facilitate on-site slaughter (e.g. home slaughter, pasture slaughter with mobile slaughter box, "slaughter with care").
ï No live transportation of animals for slaughter or breeding to countries outside the EU as long as compliance with the applicable EU minimum standards is not fully guaranteed there.
Promotion
z. e.g. the establishment of stud books for local livestock breeds as part of development cooperation.
ï Prohibition of torturous breeding of animals (e.g. extremely short-nosed dog breeds, hairless cats) similar to the corresponding ban in the Netherlands. Animal welfare must also be given more weight in the breeding of increasingly "efficient" farm animals.
ï Ban on animal husbandry for fur production and import as well as a trade ban on furs and fur products.
ï Ban on the keeping, training and performance of wild animals in circuses!
ï Prohibition of trade in live animals via the internet or social media. Simplification of communication between member states in the event of cross-border infringements, particularly in the case of trade in dogs, cats, pets and exotic animals.
ï Introduction of EU-wide compatible and mandatory systems for the identification and registration of pets for better traceability and definition of an EU-wide positive list for the trade and keeping of exotic pets.
ï Promoting the preservation, use and breeding of old livestock breeds threatened with extinction, also to safeguard genetic diversity.
ï EU import ban on hunting trophies and a clear no to trophy hunting and trade.
ï Europe-wide ban on hunts.
ï EU-wide ban on cruel hunting methods (trapping, den hunting, bow hunting, etc.).
ï No hunting of endangered species (Red List from early warning level).
ï Ban on the hunting of all songbirds.
ï Prohibition of hunting dog training in so-called "Schliefenanlagen" and artificial tunnels.
ï Better control over earmarked EU funds for stray animals such as street dogs instead of illegal, painful killing.
ï Intensive promotion of animal-free research and teaching methods and the establishment of a corresponding European chair. We need a phase-out plan - for an EU without animal testing!
ï Ban on genetic manipulation of animals.
Agriculture and forestry are
Within just a few decades, agriculture has been transformed from a rural circular economy into an industrial production of raw materials for the food industry and energy production. The EU's subsidy, free trade and competition policy was and is based on the dogma of "grow or die". Instead of giving unrestricted priority to supplying its own population, production for the global market is still praised as the way out of the dumping price trap. Increasing dependence on subsidies, on the chemical industry and on imports of oil and animal feed makes our food supply vulnerable to crises and disruptions. In addition, the distribution of EU subsidies mainly benefits large, intensively operating farms. 4/5 of all money goes to 1/5 of the farms, while smaller family farms fall by the wayside. In the last 20 years, the number of farms nationwide has fallen by almost 50 %.
As an extremely negative consequence of this development, land grabbing is continuing in Europe and all over the world. International agricultural corporations, banks, pension funds, foundations and other non-agricultural investors are securing huge areas of agricultural land as profitable investments. This means that these areas are lost to family farms. In addition, unchecked land consumption due to transportation, commercial and housing projects as well as competition for energy crop production for biogas are driving up lease prices.
Pesticides, nitrogen over-fertilization and industrialized farming methods have also brought us to the brink of a dramatic catastrophe in Europe: we are in the midst of the greatest extinction of species since the extinction of the dinosaurs! The losses of mammals, birds, insects and plants are particularly disastrous in open agricultural areas. The EU biodiversity
strategy is not consistently implemented and requirements are often insufficiently reviewed.
Numerous studies show that organic farming is positive in all socially important areas (climate protection, preservation of soil fertility, drinking water protection, protection of biodiversity, animal welfare, etc.). 7 Its expansion must be a priority.
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï Consistent reorientation of the EU Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) towards services for the common good in agriculture (climate protection, preservation of biodiversity, water protection, animal welfare, etc.): Public money only for public services!
ï Subsidies must be tied to simple but effective ecological and social standards. Abolish flat-rate land subsidies!
ï Payments should be qualified on an individual farm basis using points systems based on easily recorded farm data: Farms with a higher proportion of grassland, more biotope areas, soil-based animal husbandry, small fields, more diverse crop rotations and higher CO2 sequestration through field hedges, hu- bocks and the introduction of certified biochar8 into soils must receive higher support than farms that do not make this additional effort and rely on rationalization and minimum standards.
ï All political decisions must be based on the findings of the World Agriculture Report: Stable, regional and internal economic cycles instead of global market orientation and the pressure to grow! Security of food supply can
7 For example Prof. Dr. K.-J. H¸lsbergen, H. Schmid, Dr. L. Chmelikova, Prof. Dr. G. Rahmann,
Dr. H. M. Paulsen, Prof. Dr. U. Kˆpke, Chair of Organic Farming and Crop Production Systems a t the Technical University of Munich, Environmental and Climate Impacts of Organic Farming, 2023
8 For example with European biochar certificate, https://www.european-biochar.org/de/
can only be achieved through agriculture that is as independent as possible from supply chains, feed and fertilizer imports.
ï Promotion of model projects, e.g. organic farming close to the city for urban self-sufficiency.
ï Stop importing animal feed and agricultural and animal products that have been produced in an environmentally damaging and unsocial way. Fair trade instead of free trade!
ï Stop land grabbing and the sale of agricultural land to people and companies with no connection to agriculture.
ï Gradually end subsidies for all agrofuels by 2030! No more burning food in the tank!
ï More money for research in organic farming! At least 30% of EU research funding in the field of agriculture should be made available for organic farming.
ï Improvement and expansion of advisory services for conversion and organic farms, especially in the areas of marketing, marketing and processing as well as in the food trade. We call for a premium and support for food businesses that want to convert to organic production.
ï All public institutions are obliged to purchase at least 30 % of their food from regional organic farms.
ï The basics of organic farming must be taught in all "green professions" as equal training content alongside conventional teaching content.
ï Ban glyphosate and all total herbicides, halve the total use of pesticides.
ï Fundamental reform of the system of risk assessment, approval and control of pesticides. The results of water monitoring must be included in the risk assessment for substance approvals.
ï Export ban on pesticides banned in the EU.
ï Ensuring greater water protection in accordance with the European Water Framework Directive (WFD).
ï Subsidy programs for underground drip irrigation to save water.
ï Establishment of support programs for rooftop greenhouses and the use of aquaponics for fish farming.
ï Livestock numbers are to be reduced to environmentally acceptable levels (max. 2 livestock units/ha, e.g. 2 adult cattle/hectare). New livestock buildings or conversion measures are only to be promoted if this target is not exceeded. In order to achieve the Paris climate targets, livestock numbers in the EU must be halved by 2045.
ï The welfare of farm animals must be given priority in the implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy: Improving husbandry conditions for our fellow creatures! Better husbandry conditions also mean less use of antibiotics to protect humans, animals and the environment!
ï Better promotion of pasture animal husbandry.
ï Top priority for soil protection: limiting land consumption as far as possible and promoting the build-up of humus to store CO2 and maintain soil fertility.
ï Greater preservation and development of forests as important CO2 sinks and water reservoirs against climate extremes and torrential rain. Supporting programs for mini-forests (Tiny Forests) in regions threatened by drought.
ï No deregulation of the Genetic Engineering Act! Consistent ban on the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in the EU. This must also apply to CRISPR/Cas and other new biotech methods. Imported products that are produced with GMOs
or contain them must be clearly and comprehensibly labeled.
ï No patents on life!
Consumer protection affects all areas of life
As one of the largest internal markets in the world, the EU has a broad body of legislation that regulates the free movement of goods, services and capital. The rights of consumers in this business-dominated market are still not sufficiently defined. Issues such as the right to ecological and natural products, the right to repair in conjunction with the ban on planned obsolescence9 have no EU-wide legal basis to date. Contaminated food and genetically modified plants still have free access to the market in the EU. Consumer protection is now a European task and affects all areas of life: Food production, information about goods and services, internet trade and electronic payment transactions, travel contract law, energy sources, social media and even mobile communications.
The ÷DP is calling for this in particular at EU level:
ï General obligation to apply the precautionary principle, especially where human health is concerned.
ï Product labeling requirement for ingredients of all food, personal care and cosmetic products: detailed, easy to read (organic label clearly visible), comprehensible and with information on the manufacturer, the place of production and the preliminary products and animal ingredients used.
ï Ban on the cultivation, breeding and import of genetically modified plants, animals and food, including those modified using gene scissors (CRISPR/Cas). Necessary amendment of affected free trade agreements. Until the ban is implemented
9 Obsolescence: the ageing of a product [inherent in its production method, materials or similar], which renders it obsolete or unusable.
All products made from genetically modified material must be clearly labeled, especially for allergy sufferers.
ï Prohibition of advertising for alcohol, tobacco and other addictive substances as well as for all foods that are harmful to health and contain too much added sugar and sugar substitutes, salt or inferior fats. Prohibition of advertising for unhealthy foods, especially for children and young people. Obligation to clearly label foodstuffs, stating all additives, flavorings and auxiliary substances.
ï Obligation to use food packaging, other food contact materials and tableware that are harmless to health through clear bans on particularly harmful substances. Removal of potentially harmful products from the market and introduction of a European authorization procedure. Strengthening the monitoring of regulations and law enforcement.
ï Mandatory labeling of animal products so that consumers can make conscious purchasing decisions for greater animal welfare. Introduction of a uniform and mandatory animal welfare label! Mandatory consumer information on the use of pesticides, antibiotics and genetic engineering using clear images of animal husbandry.
ï Obligation to introduce a uniform EU consumer-friendly contract law, EU-wide right of action for consumer associations, authorization of class actions and introduction of a European degree course in "Sustainability".
ï Right to repair products in conjunction with a ban on planned obsolescence. Obligation to provide software updates for at least ten years.
ï Prohibition of all substances of very high concern, in particular those with carcinogenic, mutagenic, reprotogenic or toxic effects.
and endocrine disrupting properties10 and a ban on hazardous substances and substance groups11 , especially for the protection of children and young people. Revise the EU Chemicals Regulation (REACH) accordingly as quickly as possible.
ï No reintroduction of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) into the economic cycle via recycling. Clear labeling of these carcinogenic, hazardous chemicals, especially in textiles, everyday objects and packaging, until the ban is implemented. The same requirements for the health safety of recycled materials as for newly produced materials.
ï Ban on "fast fashion" and other short-lived phenomena. Binding requirements for the ecological sustainability of textiles and other products, ecological efficiency along the entire value chain, a genuine circular economy that focuses on minimizing waste and conserving resources, the elimination of harmful substances and microplastics, good working conditions and enabling consumers to make clear purchasing decisions through transparent labelling in the form of a digital and analogue product passport and a ban on returns.
ï Facilitating reuse and recycling and minimizing the amount of residual waste through better product design, especially of composite materials, and uniform waste separation systems in the EU. Stronger waste prevention quotas that reflect the waste hierarchy, i.e. prioritizing prevention and reuse over recycling. Ban on waste exports, especially to countries in the Global South. The export of non-hazardous waste for further use should only be permitted to countries that can treat waste sustainably.
10 Endocrine disruptors
11 Above all organofluorochemicals, phthalates and bisphenols in products
ï As a result of the NSA affair, a system guarantee is needed for the confidential and secure transmission of data with complete digital sovereignty. No pressure on consumers to permanently buy the latest products, such as smartphones, in order not to be excluded from participation.
ï Reduction of radiation limits for mobile phone transmitters, smartphones and other radio systems to recognized precautionary limits. Mandatory labeling of the radiation intensity of all devices and transmitters.
ï Establish low-radio areas in public buildings, hospitals and means of transportation. Minimize radio interference in nature conservation areas. Ensuring and maintaining low-radio areas as a habitat for radio-sensitive people (minimal radio radiation is sufficient for transmitting calls).
ï Preservation of cash payment options and radio-independent use of ATMs, public transport and long-distance transport (right to analog life and data protection). Promotion of healthier alternatives to radio transmission for radio-sensitive people, e.g. through optical transmission technologies such as Li-Fi.12
ï Retention of people's decision-making sovereignty and autonomy, i.e. no ethical or political decisions by algorithms/artificial intelligence.
12 Light Fidelity, optical wireless technology for data transmission. https://www.ipms.fraunhofer.de/ en/Components-and-Systems/Components-and-Systems-Data-Communication/Li-Fi-Data- Communication/Li-Fi-HotSpot.html
8. Making mobility environmentally friendly
The ÷DP stands for a comprehensive ecological mobility turnaround. This is more than just replacing conventional means of transport with more ecological ones. It includes decentralization through better urban and spatial planning, traffic avoidance, modal shift, networking of different transport options and more ecological drive concepts. The primary goal of the ÷DP is mobility with as little traffic as possible. Mobility must be rethought in terms of health, social compatibility and ecology and made "suitable for grandchildren". In particular, the proportion of car traffic must be reduced in favor of low-emission, climate-friendly and resource- conserving alternatives such as walking, cycling and public transport. We don't need car-friendly cities, we need people-friendly cities as well as good cycle paths and public transport connections in both rural and urban areas.
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï A mobility deal for an ecological mobility and transport turnaround with ambitious goals:
ï Reduction of the passenger car fleet to 150 million vehicles with significantly reduced average size as well as resource and fleet energy consumption by 2035.
ï Attractive ecological rail and ferry connections as alternatives to individual motorized transport and short-haul flights of up to 1,000 kilometers.
ï Large-scale shift of interregional road freight transport to rail and waterways by 2035.
ï 100% renewable energy for mobility by 2030 and development of the necessary infrastructure: charging facilities for battery-electric vehicles and refueling facilities for vehicles that use synthetic fuels based on renewable hydrogen.
ï Restricting the use of synthetic fuels to heavy goods traffic, necessary air and shipping traffic, etc., where direct electrification is difficult to achieve.
ï Extraction of the required raw materials and production of the infrastructure and vehicles in the EU as completely as possible. Imports from third countries only in strict compliance with human rights and social and environmental standards.
ï Comprehensive promotion of traffic avoidance and traffic reduction as well as ecologically advantageous mobility options such as walking, cycling, local public transport and rail transport and better networking and utilization of different means of transport, for example through car sharing, especially in rural areas.
ï Regulation of the burden of all modes of transport through taxes, levies and charges so that their actual costs, environmental burdens and consequential damage are taken into account, in particular the burden on motorized private transport in terms of energy, resource and land consumption as well as greenhouse gas, pollutant and noise emissions with corresponding relief for ecologically advantageous mobility options.
ï End European subsidies for road construction (e.g. through structural funds). No subsidies for autonomous motorized private transport, air cabs and any form of mobility where broad social participation is not foreseeable.
ï Taxation of air traffic. A fundamental ban on short-haul flights of less than 1,000 km and a ban on take-offs and landings from 8
p.m. to 6 a.m. No subsidies for the construction and expansion of airports.
ï Specifications for speed limits in the member states: 120 km/h on freeways, 80 km/h outside built-up areas and 30 km/h in built-up areas with the exception of suitable main roads.
Comprehensive energy and
Our ectounronmayrois uhneadvily dependent on energy and resources, the production and use of which have a massive impact on our environment. The need for growth has led to a sharp increase in the demand for critical raw materials. The increased extraction and consumption of raw materials is exacerbating global environmental problems such as soil degradation and the increasing loss of biodiversity worldwide. The goal of the ÷DP is the economical use of energy and resources, a complete switch to renewable energies in harmony with the protection of local residents, species, nature and the landscape by 2030, an end to the constant growth of consumption and consumption as well as a move away from the throwaway society and the establishment of a genuine circular economy.
Less is more! It's not just about replacing fossil and nuclear energies with renewable ones, it's not just about ecological production. Through a better spatial connection of work, local supply, leisure and living over short distances; through a comprehensive mobility turnaround with priority for walking, cycling and public transport; through housing offers that can be adapted to changing needs with a high proportion of communally used spaces; through communal use, rental and exchange of vehicles, tools, etc.; through repair-friendly, durable and preferably made from renewable raw materials.Through repair-friendly, durable products, preferably made from renewable raw materials; through an intelligent mix of different renewable energies and through communal energy concepts at neighborhood level, the ÷DP aims to ensure that significantly less energy is required than today, that fewer resources are needed to provide it and that less land is used. When energy is used, it should be used efficiently: through a circular economy, energy-efficient buildings, electric instead of combustion engines and energy-efficient appliances.
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï Clear, ambitious targets: 100 % energy supply from renewable, predominantly European sources by 2030. Establishment of the fullest possible production of the necessary components and systems in the EU, from the extraction of raw materials to the operational system.
ï No greenwashing of environmentally destructive and dangerous forms of energy. No more misleading classifications: Only energies that are constantly available or regenerate within a short period of time through natural cycles such as plant growth are to be considered renewable energies. Nuclear power, fossil fuels, including natural gas, as well as unsustainably sourced biomass, peat and non-recyclable waste and residues produced from fossil fuels are not renewable energies.
ï Ban on the import of energy, raw materials, components and equipment from countries with human rights violations. Obligation of companies to comply with human rights, social and environmental standards along their entire supply chain. No raw material extraction in sensitive ecosystems, nature reserves or in the deep sea.
ï No support for the construction, expansion or maintenance of fossil fuel infrastructure such as liquefied natural gas terminals. End the extraction and import of fossil resources by 2030 at the latest.
ï Obligation to take out liability insurance for nuclear power plants still in operation throughout Europe, which also provides financial cover for regular waste disposal and the consequences of a possible reactor disaster.
ï Termination of the Euratom Treaty, immediate EU-wide phase- out and replacement by a Renewable Energy Treaty to switch to a global renewable energy supply
in harmony with environmental and species protection and in compliance with human rights and social standards.
ï Promoting the conversion of energy supply structures to decentralized units that use only renewable energies and are owned by citizens, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises and municipalities wherever possible.
ï Ensuring the resilience of the energy supply through decentralized generation and storage: In the event of natural disasters, cyber attacks and military action, a basic supply must be guaranteed at the level of cities and rural districts without an external energy supply for a period of several weeks.
ï Consistent development of a circular economy that conserves energy and resources. Ban on plastic waste and electronic waste exports.
ï Extension of the Ecodesign Directive to all product groups.
ï Adaptation of the EU framework for taxation in the Member States to favor repair, reuse, sharing, rental and a sharing economy.
ï Introduction of a European right to repair: Obligation for manufacturers of technical devices to offer long-term replacement parts and publish repair instructions. Manufacturers must be subject to a take-back obligation that ensures recycling.
ï Obligation of manufacturers and providers of goods and services to declare the energy and resource consumption in the manufacture of products in a way that allows consumers to inform themselves easily and without effort.
ï Prohibition of planned obsolescence and introduction of an effective control system.
Minimum standards in social
The EU as a union of states with common European values must also be further developed in the social sphere beyond a neoliberal free trade area. In fact, many EU countries lack a balanced distribution of responsibilities between the sexes in politics and society, in business and families and, above all, adequate pay, especially for jobs performed by women. There are also widespread attempts by politicians to patronize or discriminate against people in their choice of life or family model.
The social systems, which have developed differently from country to country, remain primarily the responsibility of the member states, although convergence should be sought. Care must be taken to ensure that each social system is also functional within each country.
The ÷DP is calling for this at EU level:
ï Minimum social standards that fulfill the goals and values of the EU and are binding for all member states.
ï Strengthening families through a commitment to an appropriate state equalization of burdens and benefits.
ï Intergenerational fairness through equal public benefits for youth protection on the one hand and old-age provision on the other in every EU country.
ï Improving the possibilities of reconciling family and career through family-friendly and family-friendly guidelines for employers and legislation.
ï Targeted efforts to ensure the equal value of family and professional child-rearing and care work through equal remuneration - necessary if the work performed in the family is to be rewarded equally.
The aim is for the work performed to benefit not only the parents but also the general public via a pay-as-you-go system.
ï Guaranteeing social security and participation through security systems for times and situations in life when security is vital.
ï Financing of social services and public tasks by citizens according to their economic capacity.
ï Monitoring and improving the protection of the rights of children, young people and parents.
ï Progress in combating child poverty, which is always also parental poverty and therefore family poverty, through a balanced social system.
ï Committed fight against the gender pay gap by equalizing wages for the care work predominantly performed by women inside and outside the family compared to other paid work.
ï Targeted measures for more gender equality and programs for gender equality in public and academic areas.
ï Long-term funding programs for social and gender research in the medical field.
ï Targeted combating of forced prostitution, human trafficking and exploitation of any kind.
ï No paternalism or discrimination in the choice of life and family model.
Education for all areas of life
As a pro-European party, the ÷DP clearly supports the basic idea of a "European Education Area"13 and a "European Higher Education Area"14 . The European Union sets the framework for national education systems. Clear effects of this in Germany were the changeover from Diplom degree courses to Bachelor's/Master's degree courses as part of the so-called "Bologna reform"15 and the ERASMUS program.
For the ÷DP, education is more than the acquisition of skills and knowledge. Education policy must not be geared towards pure usability. Demands that treat people merely as "tools" or
The ÷DP clearly rejects the idea of education as a "resource" for the economy. Education also serves the development of the personality and the active shaping of one's own life. To this end, the critical questioning of social conditions and structures, the ability to help shape society in a sustainable way and an understanding of nature as the basis of life are fundamentally important components of education as understood by the ÷DP - as are the values of tolerance, fairness, respect and helpfulness.
Democracy thrives on such education. Being political, thinking, participating and thus living democracy in everyday life is an attitude - teaching and promoting this is the necessary duty of educational institutions. If we as a European society want to be and remain crisis-proof, we need responsible citizens with this attitude who say yes to democracy and yes to the European Union.
The special significance of the free and critical spirit in education
13 https://www.bmbf.de/bmbf/de/europa-und-die-welt/lernen-in-europa/der-europaeische-bildungsraum/
the-european-education-area_node.html (20.05.2023)
14 https://education.ec.europa.eu/de/education-levels/higher-education/inclusive-and-connected-
higher-education/bologna-process (20.05.2023)
15 https://www.bmbf.de/bmbf/de/bildung/studium/bologna-prozess/bologna-prozess_node.html
(20.05.2023)
The ÷DP's understanding of education expressly does not exclude the practical orientation of educational measures. Rather, the aim must be to dovetail practice and critical reflection. Particularly in the area of vocational qualification, training measures should be geared towards the specific occupational requirements. At the same time, working conditions and the economic and political framework conditions affecting them must always be scrutinized. Even in the so-called "general education" system, life references should - where possible - be established in order to develop concrete skills. The ÷DP advocates progressive approaches in this area that break down the traditional divide between education and practice.
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï Implementation of the human right to education, as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (Art. 26),
i.e. orientation of education policy towards the full development of people.
ï It must be possible for everyone to continue their education and personal development even at an advanced age.
ï Introduction of a different understanding of "lifelong learning" at EU level and corresponding adaptation of EU treaties. It should no longer just be about adapting to technology and market requirements, but about the opportunity for personal development.
ï Financial aspects must not be an obstacle to participation in educational measures.
ï The European Commission's "skilled workers on demand"16 approach for universities must be ended immediately.
16 The European Commission is calling for universities to be restructured in such a way that they produce the graduates that the economy needs. Students' personal educational a s p i r a t i o n s do not play a role in this.
ï Promotion of practice-oriented approaches both in the so-called "general education" system and in the area of vocational education and training.
ï The European Qualifications Framework and the classifications of the national qualifications frameworks must be further developed so that the basis for classification is no longer educational certificates but actual knowledge, skills and competences.
ï The European Qualifications Framework for the comparability of European qualifications needs to be more differentiated overall in order to adequately reflect qualifications.
ï Project funding for the introduction of educational measures that promote and increase people's awareness of the interrelationships and mechanisms of action in nature.
ï Organize competitions for educational institutions that focus on the sensitivity of nature.
ï Expansion of educational measures aimed at respecting and upholding human rights and democratic values.
ï Promotion of didactic approaches to political education and democracy education and networking of the educational institutions supported.
ï Promotion of innovative educational institutions that focus more strongly on musical, artistic, sports and humanities education in their didactic approaches.
ï Strengthening extracurricular education (e.g. clubs, youth associations).
ï Generally launching programs to support the financially disadvantaged to participate in educational measures.
Work
The extremely different living conditions within the EU and worldwide have led to labor migration. This has a whole range of negative consequences such as wage dumping and undeclared work, growing competition in the low-wage sector and for affordable housing, ghettoization and social imbalances - even within the EU member states. Cross-border labor migration often deprives the countries of origin of important skilled workers trained there. To avoid these negative consequences, both the world of work and labor migration need clear framework conditions. European legislation on migration should focus in particular on comparatively motivated and adaptable workers.
To date, the EU has been involved in the negotiations on TiSA within the framework of the WTO. Everything known so far from the Trade in Services Agreement (TiSA) violates the values of the EU. For example, workers coming from non-EU countries are to be paid and treated according to the country of posting, not according to the social and labor regulations of the EU country in which the service is provided.
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï The immediate withdrawal of the EU from the TiSA negotiations.
ï For the world of work:
ï Principle of "equal pay for work of equal value" instead of "equal pay for equal work".
ï Enforcement of the right to form trade unions and protection and expansion of employees' co-determination rights.
ï Legal guarantee of living wages for all workers.
ï Right to (paid) further training for employees.
ï Expansion of exchange programs for young people such as Erasmus+.
ï EU-wide maternity protection regulations: Extension of the minimum period of maternity protection to 18 weeks, including at least two weeks before delivery.
ï Continued payment of 100% of the salary subject to social insurance contributions during maternity protection.
ï Adapting occupational health and safety to the challenges of a changing world of work.
ï Protection of whistleblowers in companies.
ï For labor migration from EU countries:
ï Narrow interpretation of the work contract regulation so that it can no longer be used to circumvent employment subject to social security contributions.
ï Compliance with the environmental, social and employment standards (including minimum wage) of the member state in which the service is provided.
ï For labor migration from non-EU countries:
ï The creation of a uniform European immigration law that offers fair opportunities for legal immigration into the EU, but does not lead to an excessive exodus of well-qualified skilled workers from the countries of origin.
ï Minimum protection of employee rights in accordance with the core labor standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO).
ï Creation of a social security system that is comparable in all EU member states, taking into account national circumstances.
ï Practice-oriented training in which attention is paid to professional and linguistic qualifications and cultural integration. Conveying the guiding principle of the European idea and commitment to the common good.
ï A probationary period with regard to the residence permit, which serves the purpose of probation and prevents the pursuit of social benefits. Application of the "demand and encourage" principle.
Combating the causes of flight - humane asylum and refugee policy
Flight and migration - especially to neighboring countries - have many causes: Wars and civil wars, often involving the use of German weapons, persecution on religious grounds, mismanagement and corruption and the consequences of free trade agreements and the way of life and economy of industrialized nations. Increasingly, climate change is one of the causes or the main cause of flight and migration. As refugees are usually denied normal travel options, they often fall into the clutches of organized traffickers and attempt to reach Europe at the risk of life and limb.
We are partly responsible for many of the causes of flight. The current policy of the EU and its member states does too little overall to address them: promoting just structures, respect for human rights and good governance in the world, fair trade relations, peaceful resolution of conflicts and the fight against climate change and its consequences. This leads to hunger, unbearable hardship, oppression and conflict and, as a result, to flight and displacement.
Granting asylum and implementing the Geneva Convention on Refugees is our duty and an indispensable act of humanity. Europe cannot take in all refugees, but we reject the idea of sealing ourselves off in a "Fortress Europe". The Dublin procedure places an excessive burden on member states at the EU's external borders and the preferred destination countries in the center and north of Europe, pushing them to the limits of what is possible or desirable.
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï A common European asylum law.
ï Eliminating the causes of flight:
ï Conversion of all trade contracts into fair trade contracts.
ï Helping people to help themselves and supporting reparation and reconciliation processes in crisis regions.
ï Economical and efficient use of raw materials.
ï No arms exports outside the EU and NATO, unless a country is defending itself against an attack in violation of international law.
ï Humane treatment of refugees at the EU's external borders and in the host countries and more consistent monitoring of compliance with human rights by the European border and coast guard agency Frontex.
ï Fair distribution of refugees or financial compensation according to the population and economic capacity of the EU member states. Abolition of the unfair distribution of refugees, as is currently carried out by means of the "third country regulation" of the Dublin Agreement.
ï Creating opportunities to apply for asylum in the EU outside the borders of EU states.
ï Combating human trafficking by opening up safe and legal escape routes.
ï Residence permit on humanitarian grounds for quota refugees until return to their home country is possible.
ï Expansion of the organized admission of particularly vulnerable refugees recognized by the UN Refugee Agency UNHCR who can neither return to their home country nor remain in their first country of refuge (resettlement programmes).
ï More financial aid for refugee camps outside the EU.
ï Recognition of climate refugees.
ï Creation or expansion of permanent prospects for rejected asylum seekers in their home countries.
ï Securing funding for the UNHCR and the World Food Program (WFP).
Life protection and bioethics
Human dignity is inviolable, regardless of the stage of life, physical and mental health and state of consciousness. An elementary expression of this dignity is the right to life of every human being, from conception to death, as well as the principle that human beings must never be regarded as objects and under aspects of use or commercialization.
The inviolability of human dignity and the right to life are increasingly being questioned and threatened, especially at the beginning and end of life. The ÷DP is committed to upholding these fundamental rights. Prenatal and pre-implantation diagnostics must not be used to select and kill people.
The ÷DP consistently opposes any commercialization that violates human dignity. This includes surrogate motherhood, which disregards the relationship between mother and child during pregnancy and its importance for the child's further development, as well as commercial organ donations, which open the door to the abuse of people as spare parts stores for organs.
The ÷DP is opposed to the right to direct active euthanasia, as this entails the risk of pressure being exerted on the elderly and seriously ill or their relatives to consent to euthanasia, especially if palliative care cannot be guaranteed due to a lack of care facilities or financial resources.
Genetic engineering, cloning and research on and with e m b r y o s raise further ethical questions. New findings in research and medical practice as well as social change must be considered in the light of fundamental values, above all human dignity.
and must be discussed comprehensively in society. This is often done inadequately and too late.
Modern biochemical techniques such as CRISPR/Cas make it possible to easily modify the genetic make-up of living organisms. Although they offer enormous potential for research, biotechnology and medicine, they also open up opportunities for misuse, such as the optimization of human embryos. The ÷DP opposes this.
Genetic modifications of germline cells are hereditary and cannot be reversed if genetically modified organisms are released into the environment. That is why the ÷DP rejects the release of any kind of genetically modified organisms.
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï Creation of child- and family-friendly structures in social services, the economy and the world of work as well as the provision of comprehensive support for pregnant women in conflict situations, so that a yes to the child is made possible and supported and the number of abortions is reduced.
ï Consistent implementation and further development of the EU strategy in favor of people with disabilities, especially with regard to comprehensive support for parents who are expecting a child with a probable disability or who have a child with a disability.
ï Programs for the EU-wide adoption of children from emergency situations, e.g. those conceived by women raped in war zones, as well as medical, psychological and material support for women in emergency situations during pregnancy and after birth.
ï Prohibition of surrogacy and the associated physical and psychological exploitation of women.
ï No selection of embryos, for example through prenatal and pre- implantation diagnostics.
ï Comprehensive embryo protection. A ban on the production and import of human embryonic cell lines.
ï Ban on human cloning and genetic enhancement17 as well as genetic engineering interventions in the human germline.
ï No obligation to donate organs in member states and ban on organ trafficking.
ï Directive on the needs-based expansion of palliative care and corresponding financing of hospice units and
-services.
ï No patenting of genetic material. Genetic diversity is a common good.
ï Restricting the use of genetic engineering methods, taking into account strict ethical criteria and possible risks to humans and the environment.
17 Targeted manipulation of the human genome to induce desired characteristics or suppress undesired ones. Schleicher, N.: Art. "Enhancement" (Version 1.0 from 08.02.2017) in: Ethik-Lexikon, available at: https://www.ethik-lexikon.de/lexikon/enhancement.
Civil rights, data protection and internal security
in digital progress
As a society and, above all, as human beings, we are facing a multitude of challenges as digitalization progresses with its diverse communication and data processing possibilities, especially when it comes to safeguarding our civil rights, protecting our personal data and maintaining internal security. In this development, the ÷DP is committed to future-oriented digitalization: It wants to use and promote the potential of digital solutions, but at the same time protect the rights and interests of all citizens from the numerous encroachments of profit- and power-hungry Internet players and support digital projects that have a lasting positive effect on our living space and the common good. The ÷DP also represents the guidelines set out by the German Ethics Council on digitalization.18
Strengthening citizens' rights in the EU
People in the EU often benefit from the civil rights enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights: personal, civil, political, economic and social rights, protection against discrimination and protection of personal data. We sometimes lose sight of the latter when, in our enthusiasm for technology and the many possibilities it offers, we agree to all cookies and terms and conditions with a quick click in order to "be part of it". For the benefit of the big data professionals.
18 Publications: "Man and Machine - Challenges posed by Artificial Intelligence" 2022 (https://www.ethikrat.org/fileadmin/Publikationen/Stellungnahmen/deutsch/stellungnahme-mensch-
-und-maschine.pdf); "Big Data und Gesundheit - Datensouver‰nit‰t als informationelle Freiheitsge- staltung" 2017 (https://www.ethikrat.org/fileadmin/Publikationen/Studien/befragung-big-data-und- gesundheit.pdf); "Pflege - Roboter - Ethik: Eine spannungsvolle Beziehung" 2019 (https://www.ethikrat.org/fileadmin/user_upload/infobrief-02-19-web.pdf).
With its basic program, the ÷DP advocates the protection of the individual and their basic rights, whether analog or digital. That is why it demands:
ï Further strengthening and enforcement of EU fundamental rights in all EU member states, particularly in the digital sector through compliance with data protection (GDPR19 ) and its consistent enforcement.
ï A Europe-wide action plan that opposes all forms of discrimination and violence, such as racism and queer hostility, and promotes cooperative coexistence.
ï Avoiding the compulsion to use automated systems (e.g. online systems of public authorities, cashless payment) by retaining traditional, analog means of exercising their civic rights and duties (digital sovereignty ).20
ï Safeguarding media and press freedom, in particular investigative journalism.
ï A comprehensive EU whistleblower protection program.
ï Disclosure and thus verifiability of the algorithms that make a selection or decision instead of a human being.
ï The promotion of technical facilities to support individual freedoms in mobility, communication, education, generally accessible open source databases and program systems, etc.
ï Determining the compatibility of new communication technologies with data protection prior to their approval or introduction
19 General Data Protection Regulation, https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal- content/DE/ TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32016R0679
20 Digital sovereignty describes the abilities and possibilities of people and institutions to perform their role(s) in the digital world in an independent, self-determined and secure manner. See also: https://www.bundesdruckerei.de/de/innovation-hub/digitale-souveraenitaet-was-ist-das
and the other EU regulations by democratically legitimized bodies.
ï New regulations on the handling of personal medical data, which must not lead to a deterioration in healthcare provision.
ï Protection and promotion of access to education, fair working conditions and social participation.
More consistent data protection as an urgent task for the EU
Digital communication systems (internet) offer us many advantages in everyday life, but are also highly associated with the risk of data misuse, which is why the EU has created a strict set of rules to prevent this with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), with the rights to information, erasure, objection, rectification, restricted processing and data portability, as well as a prohibition on linking (i.e. no linking of data from different areas). Unfortunately, educational institutions are still very poorly informed about the basics of data protection and possible risks when using digital services.
Nevertheless, data protection is being violated in many places: firstly through illegal activities such as the further unauthorized evaluation of registered data from smart meters for electricity and heating consumption, GPS data from mobile devices, information from cashless payments, etc. to obtain information about users' everyday behaviour. Another example is the illegal tapping and analysis of the medical data of all patients currently stored centrally by health insurance companies. Finally, the illegal further use of telephone recordings and the recording of telephone connections should be mentioned.
However, we also "voluntarily" disclose a lot of personal data about ourselves: on the Internet, you usually have to enter your personal data when you access a page.
"necessary" cookies, before using social media and many other programs, as well as some video conferences, you must agree to the terms and conditions that allow personal data to be tapped. A gray area is formed by new car models that use many sensors to store, send and make available for analysis data on the number of passengers, often also on their body weight, driving style and much more without explicit consent. All of these activities contribute to the multi-million dollar business of big data, where marketing strategists and political groups try to identify certain groups of people with such collections of personal data and use this knowledge to further their interests.
The many public surveillance cameras with facial recognition pose a further problem, as do the digital passports with significantly more biometric data that the German government, like many other European countries, wants to introduce. If you have the appropriate access, you should not only be able to retrieve the data from a standard passport, but also your vaccination status and other personal details.
For this reason, the ÷DP still sees considerable deficits in the enforcement of data protection and is calling for this:
ï Compliance with the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and its consistent enforcement by supervisory authorities in all EU member states as well as higher penalties for violations.
ï National laws must not conflict with the intention of the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) or override the provisions contained therein (e.g. blanket release of personal data to the USA).
ï The unrestricted right of all citizens to information about the processing and forwarding of their personal data.
ï No softening of data protection through free trade agreements and other EU treaties with third countries.
ï No lowering of the high data protection standards for medical data for health policy reasons, in particular no disclosure of medical data without the patient's consent, even for research purposes.
ï A reservation of consent for data subjects if their data, which directly or indirectly contains information about their everyday behavior (e.g. smart meters for electricity consumption, GPS data from mobile devices, information from cashless payment), is used or passed on beyond the permissible purpose of registration.
ï The special observation of non-European digital companies with big data interests (e.g. Facebook, Amazon, Google) operating on the European Internet with regard to compliance with the GDPR and other EU regulations.
ï A ban on the unprovoked evaluation of video recordings in public spaces with facial recognition.
ï A systematic evaluation of monitoring powers and programs.
Protecting internal security
The security authorities of the member states are working ever more closely together to maintain internal security in order to better counter cross-border crime. The exchange of database information from the various EU states via digital channels plays an important role in this. Also
Software systems for predicting serious crimes could contribute to stabilizing internal security.
The conflict-laden debate about climate protection and thus about the future expectations of future generations is currently increasingly leading to a division in society and thus to a threat to internal security by destabilizing the social consensus.
The availability of digital communication systems and thus the accessibility of a large number of people can make a positive contribution to such consensus-building. However, this reach can also be misused, namely for disinformation: Cambridge Analytica, for example, has influenced over two hundred elections worldwide, including the 2016 US presidential election and Brexit. However, it is not just about elections, but also about influencing and controlling groups with the aim of destabilizing the state.
That is why the ÷DP is calling for this in the EU:
ï Better protection of critical infrastructure and public security against cyberattacks, espionage and terrorist attacks in all EU countries.
ï Protection against targeted social and political manipulation by internet services such as social media, made possible by individually selected and filtered information distribution (content allocation ).21
ï An expansion of the online network of the search databases22 of all EU states to support the national authorities and Europol in the EU-wide prosecution of criminal offenses, while safeguarding citizens' rights.
21 Personalized linking of data from different areas to profile an individual in order to assign them to a target group
22 For example, the Schengen Information System (SIS)
ï A further expansion of Europol's staff to provide more effective support to national law enforcement authorities against international terrorist networks and organized crime such as human trafficking, organ theft and extortion.
ï No reduction of police posts in favor of further use of surveillance technology.
ï The development of an international crime prevention strategy.
ï An extension of the powers of the Fundamental Rights Officer at Europol, in particular with regard to the right to issue instructions. The parliamentary monitoring group at Europol must be given a higher status and more powers.
ï Democratically legitimized supervision of the activities of the European secret services.
ï More protection for human rights activists and members of the opposition.
ï The rejection of chat controls, unless they are ordered by a court in individual cases.
ï No use of state Trojans and spying software (e.g. the "Pegasus" program) without a court order.
ï Ensuring general life satisfaction through the problem-free supply of everyday goods with EU regulations on supply chains and ownership regulations for relevant infrastructure elements (e.g. ports, public transport, medical care).
ï Increased EU-wide consensus building on climate protection and its consistent implementation as a security-promoting contribution to preserving the livelihoods of future generations (grandchildren's policy).
ï Practicing peaceful conflict resolution in schools, the media and politics.
Foreign and defense policy
Although the European Union (EU) sees itself as an area of freedom, security and justice, it does not fully observe these principles in its foreign policy actions when it comes to asserting its own interests. For example, the Treaty on European Union (Treaty of Lisbon) allows military operations for peacekeeping, conflict prevention and strengthening international security in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter, even outside the EU (Art. 42 (1) of the Treaty on European Union)23 . However, such deployments are also possible in the service of its [the EU's] interests (Art. 42 (5)), which goes beyond the scope of military defense and enables wars of aggression, e.g. to secure access to oil wells, which is dressed up as a responsible security policy: Energy supplies will come from a limited number of countries whose stability [...] is by no means assured. They therefore present us with a variety of security challenges that require a responsible and united approach by all member states. 24 Decisions on such missions must be taken unanimously by the Heads of State and Government of the European Union and the Council of Ministers (Art. 42 (4)), but are taken without the European Parliament and the parliaments of the Member States having a say. A review of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) by the European Court of Justice is not possible.25
23 https://dejure.org/gesetze/EU/42.html
24 Council of the European Union, General Secretariat of the Council, European Security Strategy :
a secure Europe in a better world, Publications Office, 2009, https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2860/1402
25 "Legal acts adopted by the Council within the framework of the CFSP are in principle not subject to review by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) ...", https://www.auswaertiges- amt.de/de/aussenpolitik/europa/ aussenpolitik/gasp/-/201776
The ÷DP is therefore calling for this at EU level:
ï Global respect for human rights as the primary goal of the CFSP.
ï Focusing the CFSP on peace, conflict prevention, the search for peaceful solutions in conflict situations and humanitarian aid.
ï No military deployment without a decision by the UN Security Council, with the exception of deployments under Article 51 of the UN Charter (right to collective self-defense).
ï Commitment to consistent compliance with international law and the application of international criminal law instead of support for "humanitarian interventions" that are questionable under international law.
ï Greater European independence from the USA through a common defense policy and coordination of armaments projects within the EU.
ï Involvement of the EU Parliament in decisions on the EU's common foreign and defense policy, in particular the right to stop military operations.
ï EU commitment to a global ban on nuclear weapons, as now demanded by more than 122 states in the UN.
ï Amendment of the EU Treaty to prohibit military operations by the EU for oil and raw materials and to secure trade routes.
ï A joint EU seat on the UN Security Council as an expression of the common foreign and security policy.
ï Commitment to the abolition of the right of veto in the UN Security Council and the introduction of majority voting.
ï Initiative to record looted cultural assets in European museums and offer to return them to their countries of origin.
÷DP successes
Opposition that works!
1998
Senate abolished by referendum (savings for taxpayers by 2023: over 125 million euros).
1998 and
the ÷DP won several lawsuits against municipal blocking clauses in NRW.
2000 
five sites for new nuclear power plants overturned by referendum.
2017
Victory in the referendum on the shutdown
of the Munich coal- fired power plant.
Current
The ÷DP presents
8 mayors and local leaders and has 530 local elected representatives.
2 0 0 9 
Wahl-O-Mat with all parties after an ÷DP complaint.
2023
State government wants	to	soften groundwater protection,
÷DP forces backdown with referendum threat.
2014
The ÷DP moves into the
European Parliament.
2004
the ÷DP successfully defended itself before the Federal Constitutional Court against the restriction of state subsidies for small parties.
2019
Referendum
"Save the bees" and achieved more species protection.
2014
the blocking clause for the EU elections was declared unconstitutional.
2010
Consistent non- smoker protection enforced by referendum.
2006
Secret policy in municipal
GmbHs abolished.
Our vision:
a Europe that protects our livelihoods!
The ÷DP stands for a Europe of peace, freedom, democracy and human rights and for a socially just Europe that operates within planetary boundaries, preserves the natural foundations of life, puts the common good before individual profit and involves citizens in decision-making processes. This requires a departure from the dogma of unlimited economic growth, an efficient use of resources and the transition to a sustainable European circular economy.
Less is more! The ÷DP would like to work towards ensuring that all planned limits are observed. This requires comprehensive protection of the climate, species, biodiversity, air, water and soil. These protection goals must not be played off against each other and one must not be undermined at the expense of the other. Compliance with planetary boundaries is only possible if the common good, social justice and the participation of people in the necessary transformation processes are taken into account at the same time. Social equality, reducing income and wealth inequalities and the participation of citizens in direct democratic processes are the means we would like to use to achieve this.
We are aware that the rich countries of the EU must lead the way in this transformation in order to create a sustainable, just and peaceful future for all. We see a great responsibility towards future generations, but also a global responsibility towards the economically poorer countries of the global South.
Our political agenda aims to create a sustainable, just and peaceful future for all. We will fight to make our vision a reality. The protection of our natural resources, the common good and co- determination are the primary goals of our political action.
To this end, we are asking voters to cast their votes in the 2024 European elections.
 The Nature Conservation Party 
 for Europe. 
Conservationists are now voting for the Ecological Democratic Party.
÷DP
w o