
Pirate Party Europe
 
Joint European election
 program for the European
elections
2024
 Ratification by the European Pirate Parties
Preamble
Today's European Union (EU) as a supranational institution is a project of its member states and not of its citizens. The Pirates believe that Europe should be organized in such a way that it serves the common interests of all European citizens as well as the interests of the member states.
The Pirates in the European Union have adopted this election manifesto and are working together to realize our vision for the Union.
The democratic deficit in the European Union has existed since its foundation and has not been sufficiently remedied in the course of the integration process.
A key goal of all Pirates is to create a solid democratic foundation for the Union. To achieve this goal, it is crucial to make political processes more citizen-friendly. Together we must promote the development of a common European area for culture, politics and civil society in order to protect the rich and diverse cultures within the Union.
The EU must live up to its own principles of subsidiarity. Decisions should not be taken at EU level if they can be better resolved at national, regional or local level. Equal and easy access to communication and an informed citizenry are essential prerequisites for legitimate democratic decision-making. Political decisions at European level must be preceded by a Europe-wide debate and allow for adequate participation by all.
The Pirates firmly believe that all people must have the right to fair and equal treatment. Society must respect the rights of minorities. We will stand up against all forms of discrimination and oppose movements that act against human rights.
The Internet as a communication medium offers enormous opportunities for political development and overcomes one-sided top-down communication. The Pirates will therefore vigorously defend the freedom of the Internet at European and global level.
Summary
Agriculture, forestry, fisheries and animal welfare	3
Civil society	5
Defense Policy & Cybersecurity	11
Drug and addiction policy	12
Education, culture, research & free knowledge	14
Patents	17
Environment, climate and energy	19
Economy and finance	23
Foreign Affairs	26
Right of asylum	30
Free software and open data	31
Human rights in the digital age	33
Network policy	37
Regional development	39
Social Affairs and Healthcare	42
Space program	48
Transportation	51
Agriculture, forestry, fisheries and Animal welfare
Towards a sustainable Europe and a sustainable planet
As we are part of nature, our quality of life depends on natural resources such as unpolluted water, air, soil and food in our homes. We need to achieve sustainable and healthy food production for all, now and in the future. We advocate a strong role for the ENVI, AGRI, PECH and REGI committees, provided that lessons are learned from past mistakes in EU agricultural policy. It is their task to protect our natural resources and to transform the exploitation of nature into the flourishing of nature.
The Pirates demand that the ambitious environmental promises and plans made at EU and international level are kept (and if possible exceeded). This applies both to the conservation and promotion of biodiversity in agricultural ecosystems and to greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture.
Agriculture and horticulture in the cities and suburbs must be promoted in order to reduce traffic, ensure food security, disseminate knowledge and satisfy human needs.
In trade agreements with third countries, the EU must avoid unfair trade practices based on its trading power. Exports of European food surpluses to third countries must be reassessed if they risk damaging local food markets.
Subsidies only for the common good
We want a Common Agricultural Policy that supports natural and cultural diversity. We are convinced that the diversity of food production, which is locally adapted and in the hands of many independent and self-determined actors, also ensures food security and quality of life in rural and urban areas.
The CAP should encourage farmers to adapt to climate change in terms of technologies and choice of crops or breeds. The CAP must provide a framework that establishes equal rights, opportunities and obligations. The role of subsidies in European agricultural policy must change towards a stronger focus on diversity and equality. Financial support must be granted according to sustainability criteria and not on the basis of area or production.
As agriculture in the EU has a high level of overproduction and production can be marketed using standard market means, subsidies should only support the common good. The destruction of ecosystems should not be used as an excuse for social problems in agricultural policy. The Pirates want to preserve and support small-scale farming and subsistence agriculture in order to strengthen resilience.
Use of technology and digital solutions
The principle of "no patents on life" must be strictly upheld. The EU should create the framework for open access to digital applications and open interfaces. Publicly funded data,
e.g. on climate, weather, soil and water, must be easily accessible to the public. The EU must ensure that such data sets obtained using proprietary technologies do not end up in private hands.
Forestry
The EU should do more to incentivize practices that lead to biodiversity conservation and restoration, water retention and carbon sequestration in forests, both in terms of regulation and funding. But we must learn from the mistakes of the Common Agricultural Policy. The aim is to support the development of a sustainable industry, both economically and environmentally. The EU must enforce strict protection of old forests and old trees in all other parts of the countryside.
Animal welfare
All animals deserve to be treated humanely. The Pirates support the strengthening of measures that ensure proper care and husbandry and less painful slaughter, such as the abolition of cage farming as soon as possible, the introduction of species-specific standards for all farm animals, the ban on the export of live animals to third countries and the reduction of long transports of live animals through the introduction of strict absolute time limits. The lack of transparency regarding husbandry conditions and education about animal welfare in modern farming systems must be addressed, e.g. by labeling animal products according to the production method. The Pirates support the further development of meat alternatives and incentives to switch to a more plant-based diet.
Sustainable fishing
Fishing quotas must be revised to bring them into line with scientifically proven sustainability and to protect small-scale fisheries. The EU should expand its measures to combat illegal fishing. Marine protected areas should be given an adequate and harmonized level of protection by banning unsustainable practices that harm biodiversity, such as bottom trawling or extractive activities. The development of large-scale aquaculture should also be closely monitored to ensure animal welfare, a balance between feeding and fishing, better integration into the environment and ecosystem, and traceability. The EU should push to allow fish migration in rivers, in particular by removing unnecessary dams.
Civil society
Civil society is an essential part of any democratic society as it plays a crucial role in ensuring that the voices of individuals and communities are heard and represented in the political process. As the European Pirate Party, we recognize the importance of civil society in the European Union and its member states and are committed to strengthening the values that underpin it.
At the heart of our mission is a commitment to the fundamental values of the European Union, as set out in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union. We believe that respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities such as LGBT+, are non-negotiable principles that must be upheld and defended at all times.
To achieve this goal, we call on the EU to work closely with civil society organizations across Europe and beyond to ensure that these fundamental values are respected and promoted in all aspects of EU policymaking and decision-making. We believe that civil society should have a strong voice in shaping EU policy. The EU should actively seek out and listen to the voices of individuals and communities that are traditionally underrepresented in the political process.
Furthermore, we believe that the EU has a responsibility to promote these values not only within its own institutions and member states, but also in its relations with other countries and international organizations. We believe that the EU should lead by example by demonstrating its commitment to these values in its foreign policy and by standing up for them in countries and regions where they are under threat.
Citizen participation and open government - democracy add-on for Europe
The Pirates advocate a directly elected Citizens' Convention tasked with drafting a new EU treaty that clarifies and replaces the current treaties and addresses the need for democratic reform within the Union, provided it is approved by the citizens of the Union through a referendum.
The current EU legislative process is dominated by the executive (the European Commission) at the expense of the legislature (the European Parliament). The Pirates want to change the balance of power in the European institutions in favor of the legislative branch.
Direct democracy at EU level, i.e. EU-wide referendums on constitutional amendments and law referendums initiated by citizens, should be part of the new constitution. Citizens should have the right both to repeal existing laws and to initiate new laws.
Addition to citizenship for Europe
We, the European Pirates, see ourselves as European citizens. However, European citizenship is currently just an idea. The Pirates want to turn this idea into reality. With European citizenship, we can be more than the French, Germans and Swedes. We can be citizens with a set of common rights in every country of the Union. We will be able to issue European passports that allow every European citizen to be recognized as part of a concept that is bigger than their own country and in line with the ideal of a borderless world.
The Pirates want to open discussions and organize workshops to achieve these goals.
The European Pirate Party believes that everyone in the European Union should have the right to genuine EU citizenship. This citizenship should be accompanied by an EU passport and physical and digital documents that are recognized as European citizenship throughout the EU.
We believe that genuine European citizenship is essential to ensure that all people in the EU have the same rights and opportunities, regardless of their country of origin. It is also an important step towards a more united and cohesive Europe, where everyone feels a sense of belonging and is a valuable member of the community.
Shaping political participation innovatively
The Pirates want citizens to have a more direct and significant influence on the political debate and decision-making process, both individually and collectively.
The European Parliament should set up an e-participation tool. Citizens should have the opportunity to publicly discuss legislative proposals, propose amendments and support (or vote against) proposed changes online.
We want to reform the EU Citizens' Initiative. The data requirements should be reduced. The European Commission should also deal with unsuccessful but interesting initiatives.
Petitioners with a large number of supporters have the right to be heard in person. The European Parliament should regularly open its doors to citizens so that they can put forward their proposals and concerns directly in a joint plenary session with Members of the European Parliament and the European Commission. These sessions should also be open to citizens participating remotely via the internet or social media.
European citizens must be able to use the information provided by the various European administrative processes
to seek, use and exchange information. In this way, they can understand and participate in
life in our European democracy. The social costs of participation must be kept as low as possible.
Open government
The European Union will join the Open Government Partnership. This multilateral initiative aims to promote open government, empower citizens, fight corruption and use new technologies to strengthen governance.
Promoting the participation of civil society
We are convinced that the participation of civil society is crucial for a healthy and vibrant democracy. We are therefore committed to promoting and supporting the work of non- governmental organizations (NGOs) throughout the EU. To achieve this, we propose to raise public awareness of the importance of civil society participation and to encourage greater participation through education and information programs.
Clear regulation of NGOs
We propose to advocate for clear and fair regulations for NGOs operating in the EU, with a focus on transparency and accountability. We also propose to facilitate the establishment and funding of NGOs in the EU.
Tax incentives for gifts
To encourage more organizations to become involved in social and environmental causes, we believe that donations to non-governmental organizations working for the common good should be given special tax status in all EU Member States.
Effective interaction with European institutions
NGOs need access to information on pending legislation in order to interact effectively with the European institutions. We propose that EU-registered NGOs have access to the actual text and additional information that allows them to put the legislation into context. This will ensure that all stakeholders have a seat at the table and have access to the latest developments.
Promoting the good work of NGOs
We will strive to promote and raise awareness of the important work that NGOs are already doing across the EU. By highlighting their successes, we want to encourage more people to get involved and support their efforts. We recognize the important role that NGOs play in areas such as environmental, social and environmental protection.
justice and human rights. We are therefore determined to support their efforts and work
together towards a fairer and more sustainable society.
Combating corruption and curbing corporate lobbying
The influence of money on politics is one of the biggest corruption risks in the EU and a threat to its democratic foundations. Political decisions are not made in the best interests of all citizens if corporate interests are allowed to dominate.
Disclosure and containment of external influence on political decisions
In order to protect the democratic process and make decision-making more transparent, the Pirates are calling for the influence of interest groups and lobbyists on political decisions to be disclosed. Lobbying activities should be as transparent as possible. This can be achieved by making the existing lobby register mandatory and linking it to an open calendar on the Internet. Every EU citizen should be able to see who the elected representative met with, what the purpose of the meeting was and what happened there. The process should be based on a multi-level control system, which is necessary for a reliable democracy. In addition, a legislative footprint should be published. Everyone involved in policy-making must disclose their meetings with lobbyists and the written contributions they receive. All draft laws and amendments must be traceable back to their original authors.
Enforceable ethical rules and a supervisory mechanism for lobbyists will be introduced. These are intended to prevent lobbyists from exerting undue influence.
Prevention of conflicts of interest
Public officials (including special advisers to the Commission) and elected representatives (including rapporteurs) must not allow themselves to be unduly influenced by private interests in the performance of their public duties.
Conflicts of interest can arise from sideline activities and previous jobs, but also from cases of revolving door deals in which Members of the European Parliament, Commissioners or civil servants take on new jobs in the private sector.
Appropriate rules must be established to ensure that the public officials concerned have no conflicts of interest, that interests are declared and that misconduct is sanctioned. The codes of conduct of the European Parliament and the European Commission need to be reformed. Effective transparency and ethics rules are needed for intergroups and other cross-party groups involving MEPs and lobbyists. An independent body should monitor compliance with the rules and impose sanctions where necessary. Comprehensive rules to limit the "revolving door" phenomenon must be adopted.
Re-democratization of the input process
Business interests must no longer be allowed to dominate political expertise. The Commission must introduce effective safeguards against corporate capture of expert and advisory groups, technology platforms and EU agencies. As a disproportionate number of meetings with EU officials are dedicated to big business, the number of these meetings should be reduced. More time should be spent actively seeking input from citizens, SMEs and other currently under-represented stakeholders.
Financing of political campaigns
All European political parties must use transparent bank accounts for campaign funds. The authority that supervises European political parties must have effective auditing and sanctioning instruments at its disposal.
Transparency and protection of whistleblowers
Transparency gives the powerless the power to control the powerful. The Pirates believe that transparency is necessary so that the public can make democratic decisions.
Protection of whistleblowers
The Pirates are committed to general and comprehensive whistleblower legislation to protect all individuals who expose problems that are in the public interest, including abuse of rights, unlawful activities and maladministration. We strongly believe that whistleblowers must be equally able to report internally, to a competent authority or to the media in order to ensure freedom of expression and citizens' right to information. The right to report information anonymously should be introduced.
Transparency of the public sector
The public sector, including private bodies working on behalf of a public institution, must be transparent and publish information as open data by default, without applying restrictions on its reuse. The transparency of legislation must be improved, especially in the Council and trilogues. Public bodies should be obliged to document information on decision-making processes. Authorities and representatives should be obliged to keep records and proactively publish information such as agendas, minutes of meetings, documents from third parties, such as contributions from lobbyists, and information justifying decisions.
The principle of transparency should apply to all public institutions, including the Court of Justice, the permanent representations of the Member States and the rotating national presidencies of the Council.
The Pirates believe that it is a fundamental right of citizens to scrutinize all contracts or
financial contributions related to the provision of public sector or government projects and services without the need for specific justification.
Defense policy & Cybersecurity
The European Union must be enabled to defend its security interests while making a greater contribution to global security. The EU must formulate common guidelines and build the necessary capabilities to achieve this. The necessary military autonomy of Member States must not be misused to harm the common European spirit of cooperation. The Pirates support the integration of the currently separate national armed forces, with the long-term goal of creating a common European army under sufficient democratic control.
Our goal is to stabilize fragile states and contain the outbreak of conflict, because this instability is a security problem for the entire international community. In view of the increasingly unstable global security situation, the Pirates are committed to an efficient domestic arms industry. This goes hand in hand with efforts to improve the exchange of information on decisions and denials of arms export licenses in order to ensure a coherent EU arms export policy and increased support for countries that share the fundamental values of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The Pirates take an interdisciplinary approach that considers multiple perspectives on countering hybrid threats and adapting to disruptive geopolitical changes. Our aim is to strengthen Europe's resilience against current and future threats from hybrid warfare, disinformation, cyber-attacks and economic coercion. Our current dependencies on fragile and often hostile authoritarian states for energy supplies, critical raw materials and general supply chains must be sustainably reduced. The Pirates want clear and transparent criteria and selection procedures for the evaluation of suppliers and their compliance with international law and human rights.
Pirates oppose the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and support the dismantling of the world's nuclear, biological and chemical arsenals. Pirates support initiatives to ban the use of lethal autonomous weapons systems in kinetic and digital warfare while preserving our European capacity to research and develop new technologies.
Drugs and Addiction policy
The "war on drugs" has failed. Prohibition ties up resources and causes immense costs. Unnecessary prosecution and sentencing of users of psychoactive substances not only harms society by constantly increasing police and judicial expenditure, but also pushes marginalized people into illegality and to the margins of society instead of regulating substance use outside a black market. This strengthens the black market and organized crime. Many EU member states are planning to re-evaluate, legalize or decriminalize cannabis, which can only be a first step towards a "New Drug and Addiction Policy". Drug policy should first and foremost be health policy and take into account the social and economic factors that promote drug use and addiction. A world without drugs in complete abstinence is unattainable. However, access to relevant information on drug use is essential to ensure both the freedom and safety of the individual. The state should only intervene to regulate if it is based on scientific evidence about the dangerousness of the substance/addiction.
The European Pirate Party believes that drug and addiction policies should be based on scientific evidence and prioritize individual autonomy and public health. The party supports a revision of the UN drug conventions and their transposition into EU law to create an evidence-based drug policy that prioritizes public health and harm reduction. The party believes that measures to reduce the negative consequences of drug use should take precedence over punitive measures.
These policies could include measures such as decriminalizing drug use and possession, expanding access to evidence-based treatment and regulating drugs to ensure safety and quality.
The Pirates are therefore calling for the EU to advocate a revision and, if necessary, termination of the UN conventions on psychoactive substances in order to achieve a scientifically sound view. Cannabis and other substances should be removed from the list of illegal drugs. The EU should create a framework that facilitates a science-based approach, including sharing information and contributing to research on psychoactive substances. This will make it possible to research and implement treatments with these substances (e.g. for the treatment of cancer, ADHD or Long Covid).
The EU must create a framework that encourages Member States to decriminalize, legalize and regulate cannabis and other substances in order to curb the black market, better protect consumers and minors and respect the philosophy of the free EU internal market. It takes measures to regulate legal substances that are particularly harmful to health, such as alcohol and tobacco, and to ensure health, youth and consumer protection, for example by banning advertising and restricting lobbying. One of the Pirates' top priorities is harm reduction measures for drug users. The European Union should promote the introduction of harm reduction services such as drug control services, drug consumption rooms and substitution therapy programs.
The European Pirate Party argues that these services are essential for reducing the harms
associated with drug use, such as overdose deaths and the spread of blood-borne diseases. We believe that these services can help to reduce the stigma associated with drug use and support people seeking help for their drug use.
The European Pirate Party supports the regulation of cannabis for personal use in the EU. We believe that criminalizing the personal use of cannabis is ineffective, disproportionately harms marginalized groups and diverts resources from more pressing public health needs. The party advocates for evidence-based cannabis policies that prioritize harm reduction, including the regulation of the production, distribution and sale of cannabis to ensure safety and quality.
The European Pirate Party supports the legalization of psychedelic-assisted therapies. We believe that patients should have the right to access these treatments under medical supervision and that they should be regulated to ensure safety and efficacy. The Pirate Party supports the development of evidence-based policies aimed at expanding access to psychedelic-assisted therapies and promoting research into the therapeutic potential of these substances.
The European Pirate Party supports a common European alcohol and tobacco policy focused on harm reduction. We believe that public health should be a priority and policies should be evidence-based and aim to reduce harm to individuals and communities. We advocate measures such as education campaigns that promote the responsible use of alcohol and tobacco, discourage excessive consumption and ban advertising and marketing.
We are committed to sensible regulation of gambling in the EU. This includes the principle of informed choice, in which players should receive information about how each game works, the house edge, the risk of loss and the costs of the game.
Education, culture, research & free knowledge
Broader public access to information, knowledge and culture is a prerequisite for the social, technological and economic development of our society. However, it is hindered by artificial information monopolies that are supposed to motivate creators and inventors to produce more. In reality, the only beneficiaries of these monopolies are the large corporations. The system as a whole is failing to achieve its intended goals. This failure manifests itself in many forms, including the frequent harassment of individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) by collecting societies, the privatization of profits from publicly funded works or the loss of orphan works. We are faced with attempts to create new copyright restrictions for AI-generated content.
Our goal is to create an environment in which the motivation to create goes hand in hand with freedom of information. These challenges require a thorough reform of copyright law and systemic changes in the public sector.
Culture
Promotion of common goods and free culture
We will work to ensure that trade agreements include provisions that support the use and development of open formats and free/liberal open source software and promote the mutual recognition of licensing models such as Creative Commons.
The creation of common goods such as free software, free cultural goods, open patent tools and free and open educational material must be promoted and legally protected.
The existing cultural heritage is digitized as far as possible and made available to the public free of charge.
Free culture is an essential basis for the education and creativity of society. We promote artistic activities and cultural diversity in order to create a rich educational and creative environment for current and future generations.
Reform of copyright law
The European Pirate Party is committed to copyright reform that is comprehensive and fair. We strive for a copyright system that reflects the changing landscape of the digital age and promotes a fairer society.
We believe in creating a fair system that allows creators to receive remuneration for their work while ensuring that the public has access to valuable resources. We advocate for the abolition of information monopolies, which are supposed to motivate creators to produce more works. In reality, only a few benefit from this, while the market as a
Failure as a whole. Our aim is to create an environment in which the motivation to create
goes hand in hand with freedom of information.
Copying, storing, using and making literary and artistic works available for non-commercial purposes must not only be legalized, but also protected by law. Everyone should be able to enjoy and share our cultural heritage without the threat of legal action or censorship.
The duration of the commercial monopoly granted by copyright law should be further shortened. Derivative works must always be permitted, with the exceptions explicitly listed in the law and allowing only minimal room for interpretation. Freedom of information must be safeguarded through the right to link: Hyperlinks are a fundamental building block of the World Wide Web and must never constitute copyright infringement. Remixing, parodies, quotations and sampling should be excluded from the exclusive right of the commercial copyright monopoly. Non-commercial file sharing should be allowed.
Monopolies in the areas of information and culture must be prevented. The Pirates strictly reject the creation of additional layers of copyright restrictions for AI-generated results - such as AI-generated texts, paintings and other works. The state should only allow or maintain exclusive rights for intangible goods by law if they are in the public interest.
Exclusive rights must be limited in time; neither their duration nor their scope may be extended retroactively.
The European collecting societies must ensure comprehensive transparency, fair participation rights for their members and fair contractual conditions for artists.
Free knowledge and education
An educated and critically thinking population is necessary to maintain a functioning democracy, prosperity and social cohesion. We strive for universal access to quality education throughout the EU, enabling people's personal development regardless of their social and economic background.
The education system must provide citizens with all the essential skills for an independent and creative life in the information society. We want to improve people's critical thinking through education.
The European Pirate Party wants to create a system that promotes cross-border education and makes it accessible to all students and education workers in the European Union. The mobility of students and teachers is a beneficial way to spread educational knowledge throughout Europe and combat the underdevelopment of national education systems.
Free access to knowledge and information is of fundamental importance and must be
promoted and guaranteed in the education system. Educational institutions should make greater use of learning resources that are available under free licenses without copying restrictions. The availability of educational media under free licenses for all is essential for barrier-free access to education, both within and outside the borders of the EU.
We support the digitization of educational institutions and the publication of documents held in public libraries and archives across the EU.
We see innovation as the key to the development of our cultural and intellectual wealth. We support the education of citizens and students about their right to information and free formats and free software in all types of educational institutions. We are against maintaining vendor lock-in in favor of the leading producers of digital solutions.
Media freedom and pluralism
Free and independent media are the foundation of healthy and well-functioning democracies. In recent years, however, we have seen attempts to paralyze free media by state authorities, attacks and cases of spying on journalists, and mergers of media houses affecting the European media landscape. EU citizens have the right to receive impartial and pluralistic media content.
We support efforts to harmonize minimum rules and guarantees to protect media freedom and media pluralism in the EU. We see strict rules on ownership structures and funded content as key to preventing an unfair distribution of state economic resources. We need tools to evaluate media market concentration and assess the risks arising from economic transactions that further undermine pluralism in the media market.
Patents
Patents in the information age
Patents are often an obstacle to innovation rather than an incentive. The patenting of knowledge in areas such as genetics and biotechnology as well as software makes this process a concrete threat to the future of our society.
Monopolies on plants and seeds and costly litigation over often trivial patents are already showing that both innovators and consumers are paying the price. Patent law needs to be reformed or replaced with an approach that enables a sharing economy and more accessible and sustainable markets, rather than further hindering innovation.
Harmonizing patents with the common good
Patents are not there to allow large companies to stifle competition through an ever-growing flood of trivial and excessive patents. We therefore want to stop the ongoing and increasing abuse of patents.
Patents in the information society
Success in the information society no longer depends solely on technological inventions, but also on the development of knowledge and the exchange of information. The attempt to regulate these factors via the patent system is diametrically opposed to our demand for freedom of knowledge and culture.
Patents should never be granted for "inventions" that are trivial and insignificant, such as computer programs, business models or works of nature. This type of patent hinders the development of the information society and leads to a privatization of the commons.
Innovation must be fairly rewarded, but this does not necessarily require the granting of monopoly privileges that harm innovation and negatively affect access to vital goods.
The EU, its Member States and other developed countries should not force less developed countries to accept patent provisions that could adversely affect their basic needs, health, education or development opportunities.
Patents, pharmaceuticals and health
We oppose the frequent abuse of patent privileges, such as the introduction of unauthorized changes to drugs with expiring patent protection. Anti-competitive practices, such as paying competitors to delay the marketing of generics, should be actively prevented.
We support the introduction and funding of alternative methods to incentivize
pharmaceutical innovation in order to gradually replace patents in this area. We want to break the direct link between the remuneration of advances and the price of the final product to ensure that medicines are affordable for all.
Universities and research institutes should be able to conduct scientific research for health and medicine without being burdened by patents.
International regulation of intellectual monopolies
The Pirates are seeking a revision of the TRIPS Agreement in favor of restricting exclusive rights to intangible goods. We want similar restrictions to apply to all trade agreements that may contain similar or even more far-reaching provisions on patents and copyrights.
Environment, climate and Energy
Goals
We want to ensure that future generations have a basis for a life in freedom and dignity. A healthy environment, biodiversity, sustainable use of resources and equal and fair access to energy, food and water are fundamental prerequisites for this. To ensure a secure future, we want a rapid transition to a clean, circular economy that reduces its environmental impact to zero.
The environment and climate do not stop at borders. Energy also crosses borders in the EU internal energy market. We need to strengthen European coordination in order to overcome the energy and climate crisis. We want to create EU-wide standards that take transparency and verifiability into account in order to ensure effective implementation and prevent greenwashing.
Sustainability
The Pirates support the objectives and principles of the EU to protect water, air, soil and the natural environment for the benefit of all, including future generations.
Emissions must be minimized, existing pollution eliminated and natural habitats preserved and restored wherever possible. Voluntary measures by potential polluters are a preferred method. However, they must be closely monitored as they often fail to achieve the targets.
A strict polluter pays principle must be introduced to increase the pressure to take more precautionary and preventive measures. Environmental problems must be tackled at source and not as an afterthought.
Biodiversity
Biodiversity loss is a problem related to climate change, but not only caused by it. Biodiversity is being lost at a rate that is unprecedented in our geological age, and yet the problem is not receiving adequate attention.
This dramatic loss is not only tragic in itself. It could potentially lead to a collapse in global food production and have further negative effects.
We welcome the ambitious targets set at EU and UN level (in particular the EU Nature Restoration Act, the UN Oceans Treaty and the Montreal COP15 targets) in terms of species habitat protection and restoration, funding, mandatory measures and transparency of implementation.
Transparent data
The public has the right to simple, timely and reliable access to environmental data and the decisions based on it. This information should also include methods for monitoring and investigation.
Scientific reports and specifications that form the basis for administrative and legal decisions must come from independent experts. Participation in decision-making processes must be comprehensive.
Consistent and effective rules
All environmental legislation must include a proper impact assessment and require a minimum of bureaucracy. Implementation must be closely monitored.
The regulations must not require registration in each individual EU country. Central registration should be sufficient to ensure that access to the common market for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) is not hindered.
Currently, different national regulations make it difficult to work in the area of sustainability. The EU should strive for a common system for the labeling and recycling of products.
Circular economy
Conserving and reusing resources through recycling is the key to a sustainable economy. To ensure the long-term availability of materials, the EU must introduce a circular economy based on the cradle-to-cradle principle, which takes into account the entire life cycle of a product and makes the reduction, reuse and recycling of materials part of the design.
The export of waste (sometimes disguised as used products) to third countries for substandard recycling or disposal must be effectively restricted to ensure that the materials are not lost or destroyed.
Climate
The measures adopted as part of the European Green Deal strategy must be in line with and go beyond the original European and international climate protection commitments.
Climate - No time to lose
Most of the technologies required to achieve the climate protection targets have already been developed and are already in use. The task now is to introduce them on a large scale.
The Pirates want to create the legal conditions for these technologies to be used as quickly
as possible by creating incentives for climate-neutral technologies and removing incentives for climate-damaging technologies.
All subsidies for climate-damaging activities must be phased out. This also includes the financing or provision of collateral for the financing of climate-damaging projects abroad.
Climate - effectively stopping carbon leakage
The greenhouse gas emissions for imported goods (i.e. the emissions generated during electricity generation at the production site) should be attributed to the importing countries. Imported goods must be taxed to take account of the displacement of greenhouse gas emissions and to promote more climate-friendly production of goods imported into the EU.
Climate - not just CO2
CO2 is the largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, but other emissions must also be controlled. Highly climate-impacting gases must be reduced, replaced and contained. All emissions of climate-impacting gases should be controlled and reduced.
Climate - reversing emissions
The concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is already too high and must be reduced. We want to encourage projects that capture greenhouse gases and use them as raw materials for products and chemicals. The use of such projects for greenwashing must be prevented and they must not generate certificates that enable emissions elsewhere.
The expansion of natural carbon sinks should also be considered.
Climate - Prepare yourself
Even if we could stop greenhouse gas emissions now, the climate crisis would not end immediately. We will have to expect changes in weather patterns and precipitation as well as rising sea levels. Critical infrastructure such as food supply, transportation and energy supply will be affected. Unfavorable weather events can lead to natural disasters. To mitigate these impacts, we need to prepare our infrastructure, cities, coastlines, agriculture and forestry for the ongoing changes.
Energy
We want to create a sustainable and reliable energy infrastructure that offers as much participation and transparency as possible.
With the increasingly important role of renewable energies, the number of privately owned electricity generation is exploding. Former consumers are becoming a mix of consumers and producers; energy cooperatives are taking local supply into their own hands. The legal framework must be adapted to this new situation, in which the market no longer consists of just a few large companies.
Our future development, including the development of a circular economy, depends on energy. We need to ensure that we have clean, reliable and abundant energy.
Energy - Becoming sustainable
The transition from fossil resources to sustainable and clean energy sources must be completed. Energy procurement must not conflict with other environmental goals or agriculture for food production.
The technologies with the lowest environmental impact must be prioritized and their construction promoted.
Energy - Becoming resilient
Recent events have shown the negative effects of dependence on energy imports in times of crisis. The EU has all the necessary technologies and resources at home to build an energy system without critical dependencies on third countries. We want to build and maintain European production capacities for all the components needed for the transition to a green economy.
Energy - Becoming efficient
The principle of "energy efficiency first" must be at the heart of all European policies. To achieve this goal, we want to support energy-efficient technologies and the transition of the energy sectors to electricity as the primary form of energy. Eliminating energy conversion steps will also eliminate many losses. The electrification of transportation, heating and many industrial processes will reduce the amount of primary energy required, even though the demand for electricity will increase.
Energy - as local as possible, as centralized as necessary
The European electricity grid efficiently balances out temporary fluctuations in supply and demand and prevents regions from getting into difficulties in the event of local supply problems. However, it is not efficient when it comes to preventing significant
transporting the energy for an entire country across the continent. This would lead to
bottlenecks, which could result in major outages.
First and foremost, generation and demand should be coordinated locally as far as possible, and the European grid should serve as a safety net.
Economy and Finances
Our economic program aims to support sustainable long-term development and a general improvement in the quality of life and to promote a competitive, fair and innovative economic environment. In this context, we believe it is necessary to consider a broader range of economic metrics in addition to immediate gross productivity. Such metrics must capture the development of long-term economic opportunities, prosperity, environmental and social sustainability and successful cooperation across the EU.
Competitive economic environment
The environment for all economic activities must promote resilience and competition and encourage and enforce transparency. This incentivizes social progress in a sustainable, fair and democratic way. Pirates aim to protect the individual, preserve opportunity and promote individual autonomy and well-being by distributing and deconcentrating public and private power. Competitive markets provide fertile ground for entrepreneurship.
Competition policy should aim to prevent excessive market concentration and monopolistic practices that hinder the entry of new firms. The promotion of entrepreneurship, including small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and start-ups, leads to job creation, innovation and economic dynamism, thus contributing to overall prosperity. An effective competition standard should go beyond consumer welfare and be science-based. Rather than sanctioning the abuse of a dominant position, competition policy should focus on preventing market power. The authorities responsible for enforcing competition should be adequately resourced and given institutional support and a sufficient legal mandate.
Ideally, the competition authority must be independent and protected from direct political influence.
Trade
The Pirates believe that trade and cooperation are a path to development and shared prosperity. However, we see many challenges in the current trade environment. At the same time, trade agreements have been abused in the past to empower private companies at the expense of public courts, exploit communities and promote cronyism.
We propose basic principles for international trade. For trade agreements, the European Parliament must ratify the agreement, which must be negotiated as transparently as possible, including public hearings and full access to information. Trade should expand our markets and allow for more competition. Therefore, trade agreements should not grant more or less hidden special advantages. The ultimate goal of international trade agreements is the positive development of all parties involved. Therefore, we must always demand that our partners comply with at least the most basic working conditions and
to ensure that they pay for common externalities that harm us all via the carbon border
adjustment mechanism and similar instruments.
Trade is also an economic and political instrument. We support economic sanctions against authoritarian regimes, especially those that actively undermine European security and commit crimes against humanity. These sanctions should be aimed precisely at damaging the wealth of governing elites, hampering the offensive and prosecutorial capacities of these regimes and avoiding the suffering of ordinary citizens as much as possible. We should not supply weapons and surveillance technologies to authoritarian regimes.
In recent years, protectionism has also increased and free trade in critical technological areas such as microchips or renewable energy technologies has been restricted. We believe that Europe should achieve maximum strategic autonomy in these areas and that we need to reduce our over-dependence on authoritarian regimes. The path to this autonomy and prosperity is through trade with new partners, research, technological excellence and cooperation. Trade wars have repeatedly proven to be detrimental.
Taxation
The tax mix should create an environment in which the external effects of economic activities are fully internalized in order to promote an entrepreneurial environment and a society that develops well in the long term.
To achieve this, we propose shifting more of the tax burden from labor to capital. To facilitate this, tax harmonization between European jurisdictions should be further developed. This should include the strategic allocation of capital for tax avoidance and the deliberate concealment of corporate structure (including public entities). We should focus on strengthening the decision-making power and interests of local communities in relation to their local tax structure while creating a pan-European harmonization framework. We are not s e e k i n g to standardize tax rates or tax base definitions, but merely a framework for a common approach. We will support global coordination of taxation, especially with regard to international companies.
Financial markets and multinational corporations
The regulation, monitoring and taxation of financial markets should promote investment in long-term development strategies that are environmentally and socially sustainable. The environment should discourage financial dominance, capital concentration and short-term profit-oriented reallocations (e.g. share buybacks). Speculative investments should be more strongly discouraged and more transparent.
European budget rules
Budgetary policy is an essential instrument of economic policy. The current budgetary rules aim to avoid budget deficits and prevent Member States from reacting in times of crisis.
We propose deleting these and replacing them with long-term assessments of the sustainability of the budget in order to avoid excessive budgetary imbalances.
This will enable Member States to pursue an investment policy despite the defense, environmental and social challenges of our time and to promote a balance between savings and consumption, which will foster a dynamic internal market.
European economic integration
The next steps in European economic integration should support labor mobility, equality and broad economic development in all European regions. In addition, the economic development of physical and institutional infrastructure, especially in cross-border regions, should be further supported.
Cryptocurrency
We, the Pirates, see the potential of cryptocurrencies and that they can play a positive role in economic development. We want to protect cash because of its anonymity, including digital cash.
Foreign Affairs
General principles
The Pirates are based on the fundamental values of democratic decision-making, the non- discriminatory protection of human rights throughout the world, the free dissemination of information and the freedom of the Internet. We support the right of all people to participate in public and political life and to free and fair elections and reject foreign interference in the elections of other countries.
The cornerstone of our foreign policy is the focus on like-minded democracies and alliances in the Euro-Atlantic area, with membership of the European Union at the forefront.
Pirates seek to build and develop relationships with democratic partners around the world and support democracy and cooperation as a source of sustainable peace in the world. We prefer cooperation to the pursuit of our own interests.
We must defend the Internet as a means of freely exchanging and obtaining information about the real world and as a tool for promoting human relations.
In view of current global demographic and economic developments, the Pirates are striving for ecological sustainability in line with international agreements.
European policy
The Pirates support the active role of the EU in promoting peace and stability in the world and the deepening of the common security and defense policy. We promote changes that lead to a strengthening of the elements of direct democracy and want to improve the transparency and democratic control of the EU institutions.
The Pirates want to strengthen the role of the European Parliament as the only directly elected EU institution in decision-making on EU policy issues. We welcome the outcome of the Conference on the Future of Europe and support its full implementation. We support efforts to give the European Parliament the right to make proposals so that it can act as a genuine legislative body. The Pirates want to replace the current unanimous decision- making in the Council of the EU with the introduction of qualified majority voting, particularly in foreign and fiscal policy and in matters relating to the common budget.
Vetoes by nation states seriously undermine the EU's ability to respond quickly and effectively to international challenges and threats.
Decisions that can be better taken at national, regional or local level should not be taken at EU level. Equal and easy access to
The provision of truthful and non-misleading information to all citizens is a basic prerequisite
for legitimate democratic decision-making.
The EU needs a functioning and jointly implemented policy in a number of areas. The EU and its member states must do more to promote education, science and research. In the EU, the Pirates want to defend the free movement of people, goods, services and information and minimize bureaucracy and centralization. We see the promotion of digital freedoms as the core of pirate policy at European level.
The Pirates support the enlargement of the European Union to include further states that meet the conditions and criteria for accession. The EU should deepen relations with candidate countries through increased economic, political and cultural cooperation.
International Affairs
Pirates seek to reduce the funding of authoritarian regimes through reciprocal trade and to combat trade associated with human rights abuses, forced and child labor.
We want to solve global environmental problems and disasters together at international level. We reject multilateral international treaties that enforce dysfunctional monopolies and patents at the expense of civil rights and human freedom. We will advocate the revision of international conventions that only have negative consequences and are only maintained for historical reasons.
Pirates view multinational corporations as part of the international security environment and will hold them accountable for the impact of their actions on the global security situation.
The European Union should be a political actor that protects European and international whistleblowers. They should be able to claim the right to political asylum in the EU.
The Pirates want to pay particular attention to the stabilization of conflict hotspots and fragile states, as their instability is a source of problems for the entire international community. The resolution of conflicts must be based on respect for international law.
Migration
The Pirates recognize that immigration has always been an integral part of the European community and has contributed greatly to our common cultural heritage and the development of Europe. Migration is first and foremost a social issue and must respect the human dignity and rights of all migrants and asylum seekers.
The Pirates want to build a prosperous and dynamic Europe that is better prepared for the
future challenges and demands of the labor market. Given the glaring labor shortage in Europe, an effective immigration system is essential to ensure the functioning of our communities and economies.
We call on all member states to take in refugees and asylum seekers according to their capacities. A European refugee and asylum policy based on solidarity that does not leave the individual member states alone with the financial, logistical and administrative efforts is crucial.
The Pirates are convinced that the best way to ensure the safety of future asylum seekers is through effective conflict prevention and combating climate change.
We reject the criminalization of those who provide humanitarian aid to people in need.
An ethical and efficient immigration system
The Pirates are convinced that migration must be well managed so that everyone benefits. We call for a comprehensive immigration system that recognizes the skills and talents of each individual. Any discrimination based on religion, ethnicity, race, gender and sexuality is contrary to our core values.
It is crucial to ensure fair and transparent recruitment of migrant workers and international students so that all can reach their full potential equally.
We recognize that immigration can bring challenges and are committed to addressing them responsibly and effectively. We insist that immigration must be addressed holistically and with a commitment to promoting a culture of integration, cooperation and respect for European values.
The Pirates are calling for a common European immigration policy that:
 enables legal immigration to the European labor market while ensuring ethical and transparent recruitment of migrant workers and international students,
 protects the rights of migrant workers and international students and promotes their participation in the everyday life of the host societies,
 ensures fair representation of the interests of migrant workers from non-EU countries within the framework of temporary labor migration programs,
 evaluates the language skills and other given abilities of the applicants positively in the procedure,
 recognizes certain certificates and professional qualifications in a simplified
manner,
 allows Member States to adapt their requirements according to their situation and needs,
 is sensitive and does not discriminate against the religion, ethnicity, race, gender and sexuality of migrants.
Right of asylum
Asylum system
The Pirates are committed to a comprehensive revision of European refugee and asylum policy.
The Pirates firmly believe that European refugee and asylum policy must be based on respect for human rights and international law. All EU states are obliged to support refugees and asylum seekers, as they are legally bound to do so by international treaties. All EU states must adhere to the provisions of the Geneva Refugee Convention and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
The Pirates condemn the criminalization of all people and organizations that help people seeking protection. The criminalization of humanitarian aid fundamentally undermines the principle of legal certainty and thus the rule of law in the EU.
The EU border protection agency Frontex must comply with international law, just like the member states. The accusations made by Frontex of violating the ban on deportation must be taken seriously.
We must work on a non-discriminatory reform of the asylum system that is respected by all Member States.
The Pirates are calling for a common European asylum policy that implements the following:
 reintroduces the principle of the first safe country of asylum as the decisive factor for determining the place where the asylum procedure takes place and where the asylum seeker must stay,
 |promotes the possibility of family reunification initially for those whose application has been approved;|
 establishes a system of mutual processing of asylum applications, whereby any application can be made directly to the EU, while it is up to the Member States to decide whether to accept asylum seekers into their territory,
 underlines the principle of solidarity between Member States as a guiding principle in the management of humanitarian crises,
 avoid the inhumane detention of asylum seekers and fast-track procedures at land borders and airports,
 ensures that asylum applications can be submitted from anywhere in the world so that refugees can be brought to the host country in a humane and safe manner.
Free software and open data
Pirates support the promotion of software that can be used, analyzed, distributed and modified by anyone. Free/libre open source software is essential for the control of users over their own technical systems and contributes significantly to strengthening the autonomy and privacy of all users.
Free software, formats and protocols in public administration
Citizens' data must be processed, managed and secured using Free Software tools whenever possible. Proprietary software may only be used as long as Free Software cannot be used effectively for this specific purpose and the possibility of creating such software is not feasible.
Free software lowers administrative costs, promotes local technical support and significantly increases security, for example by allowing anyone to quickly check whether the software contains malicious, vulnerable or deceitful code. We will drive forward the transition of the public sector to Free Software so that there is no longer any dependence on specific providers.
Citizens and businesses must never be forced to use proprietary software when dealing with public administration or any other communication with their government. It must never be based on proprietary forms of communication that only work with specific, mostly non-free software. Instead, open, interoperable and vendor-neutral protocols and formats must be used.
Financing and development of free software
Free software, which often forms the basis for critical infrastructures, is usually maintained by a few volunteers in their spare time. We want to finance innovative open source projects and contribute to the development of free software. This can be done, for example, through direct funding and organized hackathons.
We also plan to encourage member state governments to set up their own Open Source Program Offices (OSPOs). This will significantly improve the ability to create and collaborate on free software that can be (re)used across the Union.
Finally, the development of free and open source software must never be subject to the same obligations as the development of proprietary software, and its developers cannot be held liable for any damage caused by the free use of their work.
Software provided by the government
Software provided by the government, such as mobile ID cards, must work on free and open source operating systems, including those that are not installed by default or officially supported by device manufacturers, where technically possible. This functionality should not be artificially restricted.
Software versions for all major mobile platforms should also be made available.
Software that is developed with public funds must be open source - "public money, public code". However, if there is a valid reason for not disclosing the source code at a certain point in time - such as a potential threat to national security - the code must be published as soon as the reason no longer exists. We also suggest that the source code for such software be hosted by the OSPO of the relevant country using Git or similar software repositories.
To ensure the widest possible use and accessibility, we also recommend that governments provide their software with a copyleft license. The software should also be compatible with all major operating systems on the platform for which it was developed. In addition, web- based programs should be designed to be portable and compatible with all major free and open source browsers, preferably taking into account the web standards defined by the W3C.
Open data
Data is the basis for every decision in our society and there is now a colossal asymmetry between governments, large companies and individuals.
We seek a Freedom of Information Act at European level that stands for open and free access to all public data that is fully anonymized to respect individual privacy, shared in an open and standardized format, free of charge and easily accessible to everyone.
Human rights in the digital age
The European Pirate Party stands for the protection of fundamental rights in both the physical and digital world. We are against measures that aim to undermine the personal freedoms of individuals. The protection of fundamental freedoms has always played an important role in the Union's legal order. While significant progress has been made in extending the freedoms of Union citizens, the protection of fundamental rights in the digital world needs further consideration.
The right to internet access
Of course, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms should also apply in the digital world. Internet access enables us to participate in an increasingly digital society. While internet access has rapidly become the standard in the European Union, many are still unable to benefit from its potential.
We believe that the right to internet access should be effectively guaranteed throughout the EU in terms of coverage and quality. Digital transformation and progress should leave no one behind. Everyone should have access to affordable high-speed internet on favorable terms. The quality of internet access should be sufficient by today's standards to enable adequate participation in digital life.
Access should be possible without unreasonable difficulties, burdens or costs.
The right to privacy
Everyone should have the right to privacy, which includes the right of individuals to control their personal data and to be free from ubiquitous surveillance. As a fundamental human right, respect for privacy is essential to protect the interests of the individual and prevent abuse. Privacy includes the right to discretion and the right to remain anonymous online and offline.
Anonymity does not release anyone from responsibility for their actions.
People who feel constantly watched and monitored cannot exercise their rights freely and effectively and defend themselves against abuses. Surveillance, mistrust and fear run the risk of transforming our society into a community that is susceptible to the erosion of rights. We do not want to live in such a society. We believe in accountability in the collection and use of personal data and are committed to robust data protection laws that give individuals control over their personal data.
In order to protect our rights and freedoms and ensure the effectiveness of law enforcement, the Pirates demand that the storage of personal data be limited to persons suspected of committing or preparing a crime (targeted investigations). The Pirates want to abolish the practice of routine, automated and non-targeted data processing. We are committed to
a moratorium on new laws on mass surveillance or systematic data collection of the
population, be it about our communications, movement, internet use, biometric or other data.
In particular, we defend the right to the protection of digital data against measures that automatically search private chats, messages, emails or photos generally and indiscriminately for suspicious content (chat control). We defend the right to anonymous communication against mandatory age checks. Publicly accessible spaces should be free from biometric mass surveillance, including biometric identification and automated behavioral monitoring. Pirates oppose the automated profiling of people to categorize them into risk categories.
We reject the blanket and indiscriminate collection of traffic data (data retention). Everyone should have the right to use the internet without being tracked everywhere.
The Pirates oppose the exchange of personal data with countries that do not provide effective safeguards. Such transfers can only be allowed in exceptional circumstances where there is an emergency and appropriate safeguards and restrictions apply.
Adequate protection against crime is an important responsibility of the state. We must ensure that this responsibility is fulfilled through an intelligent, rational and evidence-based security policy. We therefore want the European Fundamental Rights Agency to systematically examine all current and future surveillance powers and programs in terms of their effectiveness, costs, side effects, alternatives and their compatibility with our fundamental rights.
The Pirates support the funding of research by the EU. However, the frequent funding of surveillance and control technologies (such as iBorderCtrl) shows a clear intention to use such technologies to dismantle civil rights. We therefore argue that the EU should not fund technologies that interfere with fundamental rights, that human rights advocacy organizations and NGOs should be involved in the drafting of calls for proposals and the selection of applicants, and that all publicly funded project results should be fully disclosed.
Everyone should have the right to access key public services in the EU. The EU proposal on digital identity provides a gateway for easy access to services and public authorities with a single digital ID. Such a system should guarantee the independent processing of personal data and ensure that strict technical measures are taken to prevent manipulation and misuse by states or third parties. Such a system should respect the personal integrity of Union citizens.
Freedom of expression
Individuals have the right to express themselves online without fear of censorship or retribution. The right to freedom of expression shall be guaranteed without restriction to the extent that it does not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others.
Large online platforms should respect legitimate online discourse and provide an open space
for people to express themselves.
It is now the case that states order the censorship of online dissent in order to suppress protests and evidence of restrictive policies. The use of such measures should only be permitted in extreme circumstances where there is a particular risk of harming the personal integrity of others, as long as these measures are proportionate and necessary to prevent legitimate harm, and not as a means of pursuing a government policy or curtailing rights.
Online platforms must take proportionate measures to tackle illegal content published online, with due regard to the interests of society and the rights of others.
We advocate the use of open source software, decentralized platforms and other software that facilitates the use of freedom of expression. We support better protection for whistleblowers and laws that protect freedom of the press and freedom of information.
Personal integrity
The interests of the individual must be protected from interference by authorities or companies. Personal identity must not be used as a tool for political or economic propaganda. Discriminatory algorithms and inappropriate disclosure of personal data are prohibited. Personal data may not be used for profiling purposes if clear behavioral and personal characteristics of individuals can be determined. Public authorities may not store or request personal data that is not essential or incompatible with the commissioned purpose.
Developments in the field of AI in recent years have led to an increasing dependence on this technology. While AI is a useful tool for humanity, it should not be used to undermine the freedoms and privileges of individuals. The development of AI should adhere to the highest ethical standards and exclude discriminatory bias or profiling. This area should be closely regulated to ensure that individual EU citizens benefit. Artificial intelligence should not limit the ability to make individual decisions.
The right to self-determination
We consider people's right to self-determination and self-determination to be a matter of course. We are committed to using the digital infrastructure to improve citizen participation in decision-making processes.
In order to guarantee the freedom of self-determination, states shall ensure that sufficient account is taken of the transparency and legitimacy of the electoral process. The
Electoral secrecy must be ensured through suitable precautions. The influencing of the
electoral process by foreign actors is unacceptable.
Network policy
The digital revolution has changed social and economic structures across Europe; free and equal access to the internet is now a basic prerequisite for participation in civil society.
Citizens should be able to access the internet anonymously.
The Pirates want to include the right to "digital participation" in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. We will support measures aimed at ensuring the ability of representative civil society to participate in multi-stakeholder forums. We will oppose any attempts by corporations, governments or intergovernmental bodies to take control of internet governance. The Internet is global, and attempts to divide it into disjointed parts are detrimental to fundamental rights.
Protection of freedom of expression on the Internet
Freedom of speech is the cornerstone of a democratic society. It must not be placed in the hands of private companies or algorithms. Very large online platform providers must not remove content from their platforms based solely on their own decision, unless it is obviously illegal or fraudulent content. The decision to remove content must be reserved for an independent public body such as a judge.
Online intermediaries should not be responsible for the actions of their users. The use of automatic upload filters to block online content should be prohibited, as they often lead to the deletion of legal content, including the documentation of human rights violations.
Net neutrality
Net neutrality is crucial to ensuring that the Internet remains free for all. We will not allow any traffic restrictions. In particular, any restriction or prioritization based on the type of content/service must be prohibited.
Traffic management measures may only be permitted for technical reasons and must be handled clearly and transparently.
Upgrading the network infrastructure
The Pirates strongly support the Europe-wide development of a modern communications infrastructure. Our goal is to give everyone in the EU access to broadband.
While the networks are being improved and modernized, monopolization of the infrastructure must be avoided.
Unlocking the network: a right to interoperability
Commercial social and messaging platforms are known for spying on their users, manipulating
them through advertising and censoring online communication. The Pirates want users who leave such platforms to have the right to take their contacts to an alternative service and stay in touch with them. The interoperability obligation for messaging services under the Digital Markets Act should be extended to social networks.
Security in the digital age
With the Internet of Things, computers have a direct and physical impact on our world (e.g. car or hospital technology). Devices and tools that are insecure and vulnerable to integrity and availability threats are increasingly endangering our lives and property. We cannot afford to have regular security disasters.
The Pirates want to oblige commercial device manufacturers to provide regular security updates for a reasonable period of time. If patches for critical security vulnerabilities are not made available within a reasonable period of time after their discovery, the commercial manufacturers should be held liable. If a manufacturer decides to abandon a product that is still widely used, the source code and development tools must be published so that the community can continue to maintain the product.
The authorities are obliged to disclose any vulnerabilities found or acquired. There must be no backdoors in encryption technology, as this would weaken and jeopardize the integrity and security of all systems.
Regional Development
We are convinced that regional development is crucial for promoting economic growth and improving the quality of life of citizens. Regional policy has a direct impact on people's lives, especially as there are still significant social and economic disparities between European regions, both in the EU and in third countries. Regional development should be a priority in order to create a fairer and more united Europe, based on the principles of equity, participation and environmental responsibility.
Regions, and especially border regions, often face very specific challenges, such as environmental damage caused by climate change, deindustrialization due to the economic crisis, difficulties in accessing healthcare and education, and demographic changes.
Regional development should help European regions make the green transition. To ensure that policies are sustainable and environmentally sound, we support the funding of projects that promote the transition to a low-carbon economy while meeting climate targets.
In this sense, the goal of successful regional development is also ever greater cohesion between the various regions of Europe. Major projects such as the Green Transition can only succeed if all regions receive the appropriate support for their challenges.
Digital transition
We also recognize the importance of the digital transformation of European regions. The focus should be on promoting digital innovation in regional development. We therefore support connectivity projects that enable access to digital infrastructure, such as high-speed internet and telecommunications networks, in all regions.
Transportation
As European regions often cross borders, we also believe that regional policy plays an important role in the development of regional transport projects. We therefore support transnational transport projects that improve connections to and within less developed regions, such as high-speed railroads.
Cross-border cooperation
To achieve this, we call for an increase in the EU budget for regional development to help regions reduce disparities and promote cross-border cooperation. Supporting sustainable economic and social growth of European regions should be the EU's main area of investment. The funds earmarked for regional development should
should primarily be used for long-term investments, while separate funds for crisis
management should provide short-term crisis aid in times of need.
Targeted measures for urban and rural regions
These measures should be promoted through activities designed for specific types of regions, where the EU should work closely with Member States. A solid urban agenda should help European cities and metropolitan regions to become greener and smarter, strengthen housing capacity and improve the quality of life in cities. Particular attention should be paid to the transnational coordination of measures for the development of rural areas.
Decentralization and empowerment
To enable bottom-up decision-making in our societies, regional authorities should be given more powers to develop their own local policies based on their unique strengths and resources. Regional authorities should also be more involved in the legislative process when it comes to their development. To this end, we encourage cooperation between local representatives within EU platforms dealing with regional policy. We also aim to channel public funds to regional authorities as much as possible so that they can be distributed to locally-led initiatives.
Given the limited administrative capacity of regional authorities, we understand the need to reduce the bureaucratic burden of accessing public funds and call for additional resources for technical assistance in the development and reporting of large-scale and innovative projects. Funding and its allocation to projects should be based on concrete data to enable evidence-based decision making.
Fair and transparent funding for more upgraded regions
However, this should not detract from the urgent need to improve the transparency of the final beneficiaries of public funds. This is crucial to avoid conflicts of interest, fraud and corruption. At regional level, project evaluation criteria and implementation requirements should be objective and transparent. The risk of misuse is particularly high for EU funds that are jointly managed by Member States, as there is no exchange of information between the regional, national and EU levels.
Therefore, we propose to use interoperable digital tools for budgetary control and to publish non-sensitive data on all public contracts, including project implementation reports. Only full transparency will allow the public and the media to follow the path of money in order to identify possible cases of misuse.
We also believe that regional development policy must be guided by the principles of social
justice and inclusiveness. This means that the rules for the distribution of EU funds to the regions should always be in line with the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the rule of law and the European Code of Conduct. All citizens should have equal access to the benefits of regional development policies, and these policies should aim to reduce inequalities and promote territorial and social cohesion.
Citizen participation as a guarantee for progress
Finally, regional development policy must be based on active citizen participation and democracy. This means involving citizens in the decision-making process and enabling them to shape the policies that affect their lives.
Social Affairs and Healthcare
The human rights conventions require these services to be based on the principles of respect, equality and access.
All EU residents have the right to the highest possible quality of healthcare and health education, regardless of how healthcare systems are structured (private, public or mixed).
This includes preventive, curative and palliative healthcare as well as mental healthcare. It also includes the basic social determinants of health, such as safe food, drinking water, basic sanitation and adequate housing, safe and healthy working conditions and a healthy environment.
Adequate healthcare can only be guaranteed if healthcare workers are paid appropriately and sufficient equipment and medicines are available. The training and employment of a sufficient number of healthcare professionals is necessary to shorten waiting lists and keep healthcare professionals on the job.
The costs of healthcare should be borne either by the public purse, public health insurance or a combination of both. Health insurance should be compulsory, affordable for all EU citizens regardless of income level and coordinated between EU countries.
Patient availability and comfort
The Pirates demand equal access to healthcare for all EU residents, regardless of the resources available to a state, as well as support:
 No (direct or indirect) discrimination in access to healthcare, regardless of the resources available to a state.
 Health goods and services should be accessible to everyone. States must ensure that no one is hindered in accessing their right to health, including access to information on health and health services.
 Healthcare goods and services that are affordable for everyone, regardless of their income level.
 Health laws and policies that are designed and implemented in a transparent manner and with meaningful participation of affected people. All health systems must include an accountability framework, which should include access to effective judicial or other appropriate measures for violations of the right to health.
 Free access to prenatal care for all pregnant women, with a focus on physical and mental well-being.
 Appropriate perinatal care
 Free advice from public health nurses and doctors who monitor the physical and mental health and development of children in their families.
 Preventing and combating poverty. Poverty leads to poor health in children, e.g. through poor nutrition, inadequate housing, stress and feelings of inferiority.
 In order to ensure the mobility of nurses within the EU, all countries should adhere to the same minimum academic standards in training.
 Easier cross-border access to healthcare. Better opportunities for using healthcare systems abroad with cover from domestic health insurance.
 Cross-border healthcare should not lead to the implementation of measures that violate privacy, the decentralization of data or patients' control and consent over the use of their data.
 EU health card for the whole world: Negotiations on the validity of the European Health Insurance Card (Blue Card) in third countries.
Patents and technology
Reduce the number and duration of patents for medicinal products or at least avoid the administrative renewal of patents. Publicly funded medicines, including e.g. COVID-related vaccines, should be available under patent-free open source licenses.
The Pirates are calling for Europe to strengthen its sovereignty in the production of active ingredients and pharmaceuticals.
The Pirates are calling for Europe to improve its sovereignty in the manufacture and development of biomedical devices.
Apps and devices that measure biomedical data, including menstruation and fitness apps, should be fully compliant with the GDPR and should never be used for mass biometric surveillance.
The European Pirate Party demands adequate data protection for the European Health Data Space. We understand that health data is useful for science, but it can be misused by e.g. insurance companies and employers.
Health data must be anonymized and encrypted. To this end, it must be clearly defined where it is stored and when and by whom it may be used.
Right to physical autonomy
The European Pirate Party considers bodily autonomy to be an essential human right. Therefore, all medical interventions must be based on informed consent obtained without coercion.
Bodily autonomy requires that safe and legal abortions are available to all, regardless of the reason for their decision. We also demand free access to contraception, including male and female sterilization.
The fact that all medical interventions must be based on informed consent obtained without coercion applies in particular to interventions that affect sexual and reproductive health and rights. We therefore call for the criminalization of gender reassignment surgery on intersex children, unless it is absolutely medically necessary.
Furthermore, we call for a model of informed consent for gender reassignment treatments that are affordable and accessible. Neither legal gender recognition nor access to medical or surgical gender reassignment should be made dependent on abusive preconditions such as a psychiatric diagnosis, normative gender expression or medical procedures.
We will work to create a safe and inclusive environment where everyone can express their gender identity and sexual orientation freely and without fear of discrimination or violence.
Free movement of workers
EU citizens working in another EU country have to overcome dozens of administrative obstacles in order to work and fully integrate in another EU country - in particular different social security systems, different ways of paying into these systems, registration in healthcare systems and much more. Therefore, the EU should encourage its member states to further remove the administrative barriers to the free movement of workers by harmonizing social security and public health systems, especially the harmonization of payments into these systems and the exchange of information between member states.
Fight against discrimination
We propose a policy that promotes equal rights and opportunities for all people, regardless of their gender or sexual orientation. We prioritize gender equality and LGBT+ rights. This includes ending discrimination and violence against women and LGBT+ people, promoting reproductive health and rights, and ensuring equal pay and equal employment opportunities. We believe that the recognition of same-sex marriage and parenthood should be enshrined.
Simple transition
As advocates of the digital and green transitions, we recognize that social, digital and environmental issues are interlinked, especially in certain regions. Therefore, we advocate for adequate EU funding for the most affected regions and for the development of new skills needed. We are pushing for lifelong learning, for example through upskilling and retraining. Ensuring adequate staffing in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics with a view to integrating underrepresented categories is a priority.
As part of the policy of leaving no one behind, we consider it necessary to provide vulnerable people/households with means of transition in terms of transportation, heating, insulation, etc.
Social standards
The Pirates defend the idea of universal access to education, knowledge, healthcare and adequate social protection. With regard to the latter, we must protect vulnerable groups from poverty and exclusion, including through measures that guarantee a minimum income and satisfactory social benefits.
Employees must be granted appropriate and good working conditions. Teleworking and platform work are becoming increasingly important, but there are still gaps in the regulations. We must ensure that the new forms of work do not increase the monitoring of employees and do not worsen their working conditions and rights.
European countries should ensure fair wages for employees working in the European Economic Area. While we recognize that a uniform definition of a fair wage is impossible in the current Europe, we believe that workers must be given transparent access to information and adequate legal protection to negotiate fair wages. There must be no double standards towards refugees and other non-citizens working in Europe. Further research and pilot projects for a universal basic income are welcomed.
European Pension Fund
Our goal is a truly social Europe with comparable social regulations and comparable pension conditions for all Europeans. Pension regulation must not lead to an even fiercer race of the poor against the very poor.
Several countries are facing a crisis in their national pension systems due to demographic change and migration between European countries. The Pirates therefore propose setting up a common European pension fund. The fund should not be seen as a replacement for national pension systems.
but rather as an additional supplement to these in order to secure the necessary minimum
income if required. No one in Europe should be threatened by poverty in old age. Pensions should be fairly accessible to everyone, without unnecessary restrictions based on age or other criteria.
Mental health care: Strengthening prevention, improving care and promoting education
Introduction:
Effective mental health care requires a comprehensive approach that includes prevention, care and education. By taking these aspects into account, we can strive for a society that supports people with mental health problems and promotes their well-being. This text examines the key issues in mental health care and highlights the need for better accessibility, destigmatization, inclusion and education.
Prevention:
Prevention is the be-all and end-all in the field of mental health. To achieve this, we need to focus on improving access to mental health services in communities. This requires the development of a well-developed network of services that are available to all people, regardless of their geographical location. By ensuring that mental health services are accessible, we can effectively support those in need and reduce the risk of mental health problems escalating.
In addition to accessible services, community-based care should be recognized as a valuable resource for promoting mental health. By fostering a supportive community environment, we can create networks that help people overcome challenges and maintain their mental wellbeing. At the same time, it is important to destigmatize the field of psychiatry to make it more attractive and encourage people to pursue careers in this important area of healthcare.
Care:
When it comes to mental health care, it is crucial that street work and outpatient care take priority over inpatient services. Inpatient mental health services tend to be costly, so it is important to get local teams and prevention teams more involved. This approach allows for earlier intervention, reducing the need for more intensive and expensive inpatient care. In addition, emphasizing the rights of mental health patients is essential to ensure their dignity, autonomy and appropriate treatment within the healthcare system.
In order to promote better integration into society, it is important to create an environment that supports people with mental health problems. This includes
Providing appropriate support throughout life, with a particular focus on young people and
older people. Early intervention and prevention measures can make a significant contribution to improving mental health and reducing the long-term impact of mental health problems.
Education:
It is essential to improve the affordability and availability of mental health care for children and young people. Immediate action should be taken to ensure that these services are accessible to all who need them. In addition, efforts should be made to facilitate the training of mental health professionals, including supporting the initiatives of organizations such as the European Association for Psychotherapy. This will increase the range of psychotherapy available and facilitate access to it.
As schools have recognized the importance of mental health, they should make it a high priority in education. Including mental health as a priority in the curriculum can promote students' awareness, understanding and emotional well-being. In addition, strengthening the skills of nurses through increased specialization in psychiatry can improve the overall quality of mental health care.
Conclusion:
A comprehensive approach to mental health care includes prevention, care and education. By facilitating access to services, destigmatizing the field, prioritizing community-based care, and promoting inclusion and early intervention, we can improve the mental health of individuals throughout their lives. In addition, making mental health care affordable and available, simplifying the education and credentialing process, and incorporating mental health into school curricula are important steps in building a society that prioritizes the mental well-being of all people.
Space program
Space as a decisive factor
Satellite-based communication and navigation, earth observation for weather forecasting, disaster relief, pollution tracking and orbital research are now normal parts of our lives.
Space has become an economic factor.
The EU plays an important but relatively minor role in space technology. We want to stimulate and open up this sector. This will give a significant boost to technology and cooperation between EU Member States and other partner countries.
The commercialization of space opens up new opportunities such as space mining and space colonization. This will lead to significant economic progress. The EU must ensure that it gets its share of this development.
EU space vision for the future
Due to technological advancement and commercialization, activities in space are no longer a topic for the distant future. Interplanetary travel, planetary defense, space mining, manufacturing in space, colonization of other planets and even early concepts for interstellar space probes are issues that need to be addressed today.
The EU must define a clear vision, strategy and objectives to ensure international cooperation, multilateral global governance and the fundamental principles of the rule of law, justice and democracy in the space sector. We must ensure the continued development of the EU Space Program Agency, which is politically and financially accountable to the EU public through the EU institutions and is given an appropriate EU-wide mandate for space development.
Industrial space policy
Worldwide, space activities are shifting from government agencies to private and commercial companies.
In the current decade, the EU space program should focus on supporting development in the private sector. Publicly funded research should primarily use commercial launch services and focus on high-risk aspects where it can produce breakthrough technologies, such as light sails for long-range missions and resource extraction in space.
Independent EU launch capabilities with full reusability need to be developed to ensure that the EU has sufficient access to space.
and can assume a leading position in technological and economic terms.
A legal framework is needed to prevent the misuse and weaponization of space assets.
Law in space
The Outer Space Treaty (OST) does not cover many critical legal issues related to the use and commercialization of outer space. The EU, as a prime example of several nations working together for the common good, should take a leading role in extending the OST to cover important issues such as space mining, space debris and environmental aspects.
The space must be accessible and used for the benefit of all humanity.
Environmental laws in space should address issues such as pollution that can affect large areas or reach inhabited or potentially habitable space objects, areas that may harbor extraterrestrial life, and also the protection of places of great importance for research, such as the far side of the Moon, which has exceptionally low radio frequency interference, making it an important site for radio astronomy.
Space debris
Disused satellites, rocket stages and debris in orbit are a threat to space travel. The EU must push for international treaties that require the removal of space debris and prevent new space debris through controlled deorbiting of spent rocket stages and retired satellites.
Activities that generate space debris, such as testing of anti-satellite systems, must be outlawed.
Research programs for technologies to eliminate space debris must be provided with additional funding.
Planetary defense
The impact of a large object can cause immense damage to the Earth. Protecting the planet from such events is of great importance. We want to increase funding for projects to detect potentially dangerous near-Earth objects and for technologies to deflect dangerous objects.
Planetary defense activities must be internationally coordinated and integrated.
Short-term goals
Consumable launcher systems quickly become obsolete and the economic benefits of reusable systems are significant. The EU needs its own reusable launcher capability to remain competitive and enable larger projects.
In addition, an independent means of transportation for the crew, initially into Earth orbit, is required.
The development of these systems at national level will be necessary in order to keep pace with international developments, which are currently dominated by the USA and China.
Long-term goals
The EU space program should also fund goals that are or seem unattainable today. Working on distant goals, such as building an interstellar probe, a space elevator or a space hook, will stimulate the development of radically new technologies and materials. To ensure civilian use for the benefit of humanity and effective scientific and economic cooperation, such large and powerful space technologies should be developed with international partners.
Reaping the benefits of the space program
Investing in space technologies pays off tenfold. Pirates believe that investment in a large- scale space program will produce research results that have the potential to improve the lives of all. We want research results to be made available to the general public through open access principles. The application of space technology should benefit the daily lives of all people, such as the already increasing internet coverage in remote areas and satellite- based navigation.
Tell the story
Space exploration is underrepresented in the media. An essential part of the EU space program must be the communication of projects to the general public in order to raise awareness of the importance of space for the future of humanity.
Transportation
0. Transportation for all
Transport plays a crucial role in the European economy as it ensures the free movement of people and goods. However, it is also responsible for a large proportion of our emissions and is a major source of air pollution in our cities.
The decarbonization of the transport sector and the implementation of environmentally friendly, sustainable mobility are necessary to tackle the climate and energy crisis, improve the quality of life of citizens and make our cities more liveable. The foundations of our mobility concept are based on the principles of sustainability, intermodality and interconnectivity. We believe that all Europeans must have easy access to fast, reliable and environmentally friendly means of transportation.
We are committed to promoting public transport and rail networks. By investing in these modes of transport, we want to provide people across Europe with convenient, efficient and sustainable mobility options. Expanding public transport systems such as buses, streetcars and metros will encourage more people to choose these alternatives over private transport, reducing congestion and emissions.
In addition, by expanding and improving rail networks, we can offer faster and more reliable intercity and regional connections, making rail travel an attractive option for commuters and long-distance travelers. Our aim is to create a robust, multimodal and interconnected transport network that meets the needs of all people and contributes to a greener and more accessible Europe.
1. Green cities
Shared mobility and energy laziness Alternative fuels cannot save our planet as long as we continue to waste energy. We support the Shared Mobility Principles for Livable Cities initiative: If you can walk to something, you shouldn't drive, and if you can ride together, you shouldn't ride alone.
These principles aim to increase the use of public transportation, reduce the number of cars on the road, prioritize pedestrians and bicycles in environmentally friendly cities, and even save us billions of euros in productive time every day when commuters are stuck in traffic jams.
Accessible and efficient public transportation
Public transportation must be affordable and accessible. Efficient public transport systems, bicycle highways and priority bus lanes reduce pollution and noise levels in cities.
In the long term, we want to reach transportation hubs by bike and public transport, trains for travel within the EU and planes, especially for overseas destinations. Sharing is important! Our priority here is appropriateness: the total cost of any solution (including long-term maintenance) must be proportionate to the overall public benefit. We support innovative solutions such as autonomous road trains, smart roads and parking lots, freight streetcars or modular buses where appropriate.
Open data for greener cities
To encourage cities to achieve European Green City status, we will measure pollution and noise levels in cities and use this information to reward cities that are committed to environmental sustainability. We believe in an open data system for transport that is accessible to all, with open data tools being developed for businesses and regional governments to easily connect them. We will ensure the security and privacy of personal data while making transportation data accessible to all. We will use open standards to ensure the interoperability of transport systems in all EU countries. As a result, transport in Europe will function similarly within the individual Member States. We want to promote the development of an efficient, accessible and environmentally friendly transport system.
Supporting the infrastructure for alternative fuels
While the car remains the main source of air pollution in cities and should not be the preferred mode of transportation, we respect everyone's freedom of choice. The automotive industry has the opportunity to play a leading role in the transition to clean mobility. Embedding the principles of the right to park, the right to charge and fair access to the installation of charging infrastructure at existing fossil fuel filling stations along the TEN- T network in European legislation will ensure a smoother deployment of clean technologies and accelerate the decarbonization of the European transport sector.
2. Local cross-border traffic
We believe that efficient and accessible transport can connect the different regions of Europe. We will develop and improve existing transnational connections that go beyond traditional national transport systems. The EU should support and ensure the development of fair transport solutions in border regions that enable efficient and organic transport across national borders. By using proven and sustainable
By using new modes of transport such as rail and new dynamic options (bicycle and car
sharing systems, on-demand public transport), we will strive to promote the peripheral regions of EU countries, which are often the most underdeveloped and poorly connected in their respective countries.
European high-speed rail network
We believe that the future of transport in Europe should prioritize modern, efficient and sustainable systems that can connect us all. Therefore, we propose to support measures that prioritize the development of a high-speed rail network that connects all EU capitals, uses new materials and technologies to make travel quieter and connects to existing rail networks.
A high-speed rail network would significantly improve travel efficiency in Europe, shorten travel times and increase productivity. This would have a positive impact on businesses by reducing costs and increasing productivity. It would also significantly improve accessibility to remote regions, as people would be able to travel more easily to areas that were previously difficult to reach. This would have a positive impact on the local economies of these areas as it would be easier for people to visit these regions as tourists or in their leisure time.
In addition to these benefits, a connected high-speed rail network will help reduce congestion on roads and highways, improving overall transportation efficiency and reducing travel times. By reducing the number of vehicles on the roads, a high-speed network will also have a positive impact on the environment by reducing carbon emissions and promoting sustainable travel.
3. Simple rules and intelligent technologies
European transport regulations are full of exceptions. To align these rules, competitive salaries and working conditions must be introduced for all professional drivers across the continent, including harmonization of the truck driving ban. We support progressive legislation for autonomous, driverless cars to address liability issues and keep the EU at the top of the automotive innovation ladder. The different modes of transport should be put on an equal legal footing, have a transparent subsidy system and their costs should reflect all relevant externalities.
Big Brother on the street
We strive for a unified, publicly controlled, easy-to-use toll satellite system for commercial traffic on highways that enables the use of open source apps, allows the processing of anonymized big data and thus improves municipal and interstate traffic management. We insist that eCall and other similar movement recording devices remain voluntary and that their data be strictly anonymized so that participation in such
traffic monitoring measures remain a transparent means of choice with public benefit and do
not become an obligatory means of state surveillance through outsourced contractors and opaque control mechanisms.
Legislation on ride-hailing
Major EU metropolitan areas are currently in a legal limbo with regard to ride-hailing apps (e.g. Taxify, UBER), which is hindering further research and development of these projects. We believe that legislation needs to reflect current technological developments and that there needs to be a common framework for ride-hailing apps at EU level that allows precise satellite navigation and similar technologies to be recognized as a certified distance calculation system. The legalization of ride-hailing apps will particularly benefit rural areas and less affluent people and provide more security for gig workers.






TOGETHER FOR A STRONG EUROPE.
The SPD's election program for the 2024 European elections
Table of contents
I. Together for a strong Europe.	2
II. A Europe of the future	4
III. A strong Europe in the world	18
IV. A Europe of respect	30
V. Conclusion	39
Together for a strong Europe.
I. Introduction
We can look back on an impressive success story in a Europe once torn apart by war. Enemies became allies and partners. Today we live in a unique community of almost 450 million citizens, united in their diversity. The European Union i s the basis for security, peace and prosperity for the people on our continent.
In an unhinged world with a brutal Russian war of aggression on the European continent, this union is more important than ever. Anyone who puts Europe at risk, who attacks or questions Europe's unity and strength - whether from within or without - is attacking the foundations of our coexistence. A strong Europe that gives people security is therefore at the heart of our policies and actions.
It is in our deepest national interest to further develop the European Union and to help shape it according to our ideas. As the party with the chancellorship in Germany, the SPD has great power to shape the future of Europe and thus a special responsibility for its future. We accept this responsibility at all levels and handle it with care and determination.
What makes Europe strong
The European Union has proven itself in the crises of recent years. Social democratic crisis management has brought Europe together where conservatives had previously divided it. During the coronavirus pandemic, we proved how solidarity makes us strong through cross-border cooperation and the largest recovery fund in European history. Together with our European partners, we reacted decisively to the Russian war of aggression and supported Ukraine politically, economically and militarily. We want to build on this determined, joint European policy.
Europe is strong when there is peace and people can live together in security. We take responsibility for ensuring that no child born in the European Union today will ever experience war. To this end, we continue to focus on reconciliation and democracy using all diplomatic means. At the same time, we are strengthening our defense and military cooperation and are consistently working politically on the enlargement of Europe. Because cooperation and collaboration are the basis for peace within the European Union.
Europe is strong when its democracy is respected and protected. The European Union must be resilient and have effective instruments against its enemies from within and without. That is why we want to strengthen the rule of law and expand our democracy.
Europe is strong when climate protection succeeds and becomes a job engine. To achieve this, Europe must invest massively in future technologies and infrastructure and support industry on its path to climate neutrality. This will secure millions of jobs and create many new ones. A strong European single market is the backbone of our prosperity and will provide enormous benefits for employees, especially in Germany, if it is designed fairly.
Europe is strong when it contributes to people being able to lead a good, self-determined life. That is why we focus on social justice, especially in the transformation; on the fair distribution of costs and opportunities in the energy and mobility transition. Europe will only be successful if people on low incomes also live well and benefit from climate protection. We are also harnessing the potential of digitalization for progress and prosperity and ensuring that technologies and developments in Europe continue to be aligned with people's needs.
Europe is strong when good working conditions prevail and workers' rights are protected. No one in Europe should be exploited through their work. Wage and social dumping must be prevented more effectively.
Europe is strong when it speaks with one voice in the world. If we act together, we can help shape the world of tomorrow. Otherwise, others will determine the rules of global politics. The EU must act and be perceived as a sovereign geopolitical player.
Europe is strong when the brightest minds and most industrious hands see their home and future here. This requires an ambitious innovation agenda and modern immigration law. We need joint solutions for order and humanity at the external borders.
We are working for this strong Europe. Which principles guide us
Successful politics needs a compass to organize progress. We are therefore basing our program for a strong Europe on three principles that guide the SPD's actions:
We are creating a Europe of the future. If we make the best possible use of our resources, the largest single market in the world and the potential of the diversity of people in Europe, we can turn the necessary change into social progress and ensure that everyone benefits. We are committed to creating good work for all. We want to combat climate change and at the same time strengthen Germany and Europe as a business location. Together in Europe, we can ensure that we are leaders in global competition and that no one needs to be afraid of the future.
A strong Europe in the world is our response to global challenges, security changes and the pressure that the world's democracies are facing from populists and autocrats. When we speak with one voice, we are strong enough to make our values and interests heard in the world. Together, we want to make Europe the partner of choice, strengthen the rules-based order and work internationally for peace and against inequality.
We want a Europe of respect. We are proud that Europe offers us many opportunities to live our lives the way we want to. This includes good working conditions, a fair distribution of wealth and a safe and good life, no matter where you come from, what job you do or who you love. We will defend this principle against those who want to restrict and abolish it. Respect also means that fair rules apply to everyone.
Europe must take effective action against restrictions on the rule of law and the separation of powers, because the program of the populists and Europhobes is ultimately a social and cultural impoverishment program for the citizens.
What matters in the 2024 European elections
The European Union is currently facing a number of challenges that will determine how we will live in Europe and Germany in the future. The 2024 European elections are therefore a directional election in which the people of Europe will determine the way forward. We want a strong Europe that can protect our peace, our freedom and our prosperity, even in an increasingly uncertain world. We firmly reject right-wing populism, which has re-established itself across Europe and propagates national egoisms that we thought had been overcome and which jeopardize all our achievements in Europe.
Germany needs a strong Europe and Europe needs a strong Germany. Together, we can provide answers to current and future crises and challenges that are in tune with the times.
and are based on the foundation of our common values. This is how we ensure that we as Europeans have a good future together. Together, we can prevent the dangerous path of right-wing populists and their misanthropic policies.
We Social Democrats need your vote for this.
II. A Europe of the future
Our Europe of the future is climate-neutral and economically strong. For us, the two are closely linked. Climate protection must succeed because it is the basis for ensuring that future generations have a good livelihood. Europe's future is inconceivable without climate protection.
Europe is best placed to create the prosperity of the future through effective climate protection. To achieve this, Europe must remain an industrial location. We want an active industrial policy that invests massively in climate-neutral technologies of the future, in a secure energy supply, infrastructure and innovation. The expansion of renewable energies has absolute priority. Climate protection can thus become a job engine and lay the foundations for the next decade of economic growth and prosperity. European programs and initiatives are of crucial importance for us in Germany, because national and European climate and economic policies must go hand in hand.
The European single market will continue to be the backbone of economic development in the future and must be further deepened, as millions of jobs in Germany are closely linked to a strong single market. It must be fair and investments must be directed towards sustainable production processes. We will prevent the abuse of power by large companies at the expense of consumers, employees and the self-employed. We support the economy but also hold economic players accountable for creating the sustainable and fair prosperity of tomorrow. The United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals are of central importance in this regard. The Europe of the future is also a Europe of innovation and creativity in which new ideas can flourish. This requires clear rules that are respected and enforced, as well as an innovation landscape that makes it easier to try out new methods and products.
We are stepping up to the plate to formulate answers that will ensure a life in freedom, peace and a just society today and tomorrow.
1. The future of Europe as a business and industrial location
With its fundamental freedoms of movement of goods, persons, services and capital, the European Single Market is one of the largest economic areas in the world. This common market is at the heart of our European economic strength and the engine of prosperity in Europe. 30 years after the birth of the single market, we are experiencing a major transformation of our economy and the way we live and work. In the course of this change, there is a global race for resources, technologies and standards. We want Germany and Europe to remain an attractive economic and industrial location that secures jobs and the prosperity of tomorrow. And we want to show in Europe that industry, climate protection and social progress can be brought together. That is why we need a new departure in economic and industrial policy in Europe. We want future technologies "Made in Europe".
Further development of the European industrial strategy
We want to further develop the European industrial strategy (Green Deal Industrial Plan) as part of a comprehensive location and resilience strategy and strategically prepare it for the future and the new challenges.
framework conditions in global competition. We will ensure that the EU Commission and the member states involve large sections of the economy, civil society and trade unions in particular in the further development of European economic and industrial policy. We want to further strengthen strong social partnerships, fair working conditions and high social standards in a socially and ecologically sustainable Europe. Above all, companies that benefit from state subsidies and transformation programs have a duty to offer good jobs in Europe on the basis of collective agreements in the long term. We also want to structure state subsidies in key industries and future technologies in such a way that they support value creation in Europe and make us strategically more independent.
Investments in industries of the future
We want to support industry in making the transition to climate-neutral and circular processes. We are focusing on both the basic industries and manufacturing sectors such as the leading automotive industry. We want to support these industries in their innovation efforts, which can also have an innovative impact on the rest of the economy. In particular, we see great strategic potential for the European market in areas such as green hydrogen, battery technology, electromobility, wind and solar power technologies and biotechnology. We want to ensure that production capacities are expanded in such key areas of digital and ecological transformation.
Improve regulation and speed up planning processes
For a successful active economic and industrial policy, we must have the ability to make strategic decisions at European level and at the same time reduce bureaucracy where possible in order to speed up planning processes and create space for entrepreneurship and creativity. A responsible reduction of bureaucratic obstacles in the internal market is urgently needed for large companies as well as for SMEs, start-ups, the self-employed and freelancers. At present, European industrial policy is regulated primarily by the ad hoc control of national aid and via a large number of platforms and bodies for different European programs.
There is a lack of data, analytical resources and bundled competencies at EU level. We want to change this and improve the quality of EU regulations. We will continue to work towards simplifying obstacles to investment such as lengthy approval procedures and extensive state aid reviews. To do this, we need an update of various regulations. In some cases, various regulations block each other. Here, we want to air things out without lowering protection standards. In addition, we want to support regions that lead the way and designate areas in which networked, climate-neutral industrial locations with good jobs are created with shortened and streamlined planning and approval procedures. To this end, we want to extend the concepts of go-to-areas, which we have already successfully implemented for wind energy, to other projects. We want to create more coherence in product and raw materials legislation and prevent double regulation. Reducing bureaucracy must not lead to lower social, environmental or safety standards. We want a large proportion of products to come from Europe when public contracts are awarded, also in order to reduce the EU's carbon footprint.
Protecting the internal market from unfair competition
We need further development of European competition and antitrust law, which must not only focus on competition within Europe, but also increasingly on the global competitive position of European companies. At the same time, we are convinced that it is the accumulation of market power in the hands of one company that destroys functioning markets, and not only the abuse of this market power.
Competition policy must therefore limit market power with
the instruments of antitrust law and merger control. European competition policy also plays a decisive role in limiting inflation by pursuing price increases that do not result from the actual market conditions of supply and demand (greedflation). The corresponding reform of German competition law, which was initiated by the German government, is an important step in the right direction. The harmonization of insolvency law in the European Union must be advanced with caution and consideration for nationally functioning regulations.
Skilled workers for Europe
In order to make our economy fit for the future, we need a sufficient number of workers at all skill levels. This includes well-trained skilled workers in particular. Demographic change will further exacerbate the existing shortage of skilled workers in the coming years. We must therefore make better use of the potential of domestic skilled workers and invest in further training. At the same time, we are dependent on the immigration of non-European skilled workers. In Germany, the Federal Government has made a long overdue paradigm shift towards a modern immigration society with the Opportunities Residence Act, the Skilled Immigration Act and the reform of the citizenship law, among other things. We want and need to work together in Europe to recruit skilled workers in a targeted manner. This requires an improved EU immigration law for skilled workers. We must also consider the provision of housing and offer not only workers, but also their families, integration measures and good prospects. It must be ensured that immigrants are placed in good, skilled jobs and are not exploited.
Because everyone in Europe has the right to a good job. Promoting innovation more strongly
We want to make the best possible use of the innovation potential of our society and economy in order to actively shape change. Our goal is a unified European knowledge and research landscape with a dense network of collaborations, joint programs and specifically funded major future projects in areas such as clean tech, quantum computing and artificial intelligence. We are committed to expanding the EU's IPCEI initiative for the promotion and relocation of strategically important companies to more sectors, opening it up to SMEs and significantly accelerating the processing of applications. We want to promote open source and open science and thus support sustainable and fair usage agreements and ensure that publicly funded research is also freely available to the general public. All of this is a core component of scientific sovereignty in a Europe of research and innovation.
Conserving resources in a European circular economy
For a future-proof and sustainable economy, we need sufficient resources that are used longer and more efficiently. We therefore need a coordinated EU raw materials strategy that aims to diversify raw material sources, use materials more efficiently, improve recycling and increase intra-European procurement, as well as promote joint research into sustainable alternatives to scarce raw materials.
The primary goal of EU resource policy must be the implementation of the EU waste hierarchy, in which material consumption is first avoided and reduced. By establishing a European circular economy on an industrial scale, we can further optimize production efficiency, reduce our carbon footprint and become less dependent on imports. We want consumers to have the right to have their products repaired at low cost, even after the warranty period has expired and in the event of a defect arising after the purchase of goods. We will abolish unnecessary disposable packaging and make manufacturers responsible for reducing single-use packaging and increasing reuse. We want to
Reform the textile industry sustainably and put an end to fast fashion. Textiles should last longer, be repairable and recyclable and be produced under humane conditions. Manufacturers and retailers must no longer simply destroy unsold goods. We want to reduce scrap exports and at the same time promote circular economy businesses in countries of the Global South. Where emissions are very difficult to avoid - such as in waste incineration, cement or parts of the chemical industry - we want to capture, reuse or, if necessary, store carbon dioxide in the sense of the circular economy (carbon capture, use and storage). This requires uniform regulations and a common infrastructure across Europe.
Reliable framework conditions for a strong healthcare sector and pharmaceutical industry
In order to ensure the best possible care for patients in Europe, we need a patient-oriented healthcare industry, including a strong pharmaceutical industry. We want reliable framework conditions for Europe as a location for research, production and innovation and a greater focus on applications. Europe must become attractive for conducting medical studies. We want to work more closely together in the areas of research funding, approval procedures and data use, as well as find the best procedures in European comparisons and use them as a basis for harmonization. This will enable us to speed up study approval and implementation procedures and significantly reduce bureaucracy. Adequate patent protection is an essential basis for all innovation activities. We will therefore work to ensure that innovation and research in Germany and Europe continue to pay off. At the same time, we will ensure that patients have better access to life-saving medicines. We also support national and European investment subsidies for production facilities and ensuring security of supply.
2. Renewable, affordable and secure energy supply
Europe's energy supply of the future must be renewable, affordable and secure. We have all experienced what happens when our energy supply is largely dependent on rulers like Vladimir Putin. Energy prices have skyrocketed and we have become vulnerable to blackmail. The energy price crisis following the Russian war of aggression against Ukraine was a crisis of fossil fuels. Thanks to a joint effort, we managed to reduce our dependence on Russia in the short term. Something like that must not happen to us again. We need to take advantage of the diversity of the European continent and the different locational advantages in order to be able to use sustainable energy sources such as the sun or wind as efficiently as possible, and work together in a European energy union to secure our energy supply.
Completing the European Energy Union
Connected national energy grids must become a European grid. We must jointly invest more in the expansion of renewable energies, cross-border hydrogen pipelines and power lines as well as in electrolysers and port infrastructure. We need a uniform and coherent regulatory and funding framework. We are committed to making the planning and approval of plants and infrastructure for the climate- neutral age as simple and unbureaucratic as possible. We are also driving forward the development of a European market for green hydrogen. In the production of
Biofuels must not be allowed to compete with food production.
In power plants, we want to end the use of fuels that weaken the important and shrinking CO2 reservoir of forests. As part of the Green Deal, we were able to
enforce that the EU member states must increase the CO2 storage capacities of peatlands, forests and meadows. We will pay attention to this when evaluating the national energy and climate plans,
that the Member States' plans for the use of bioenergy do not run counter to this. At the same time, we want the utilization of municipal and agricultural waste for the production of biogases to remain possible. It is important to us that the European Energy Union not only focuses on the EU27, but is also open to members of the European Economic Area and the EU's candidate countries. This completion of the Energy Union is the basis for the modernization of our economy, industry and society.
Secure international energy relations
Europe will remain an importer of energy, especially clean energy, but there must be no more one-sided dependencies. We are therefore calling for a strategy to diversify the European Union's global energy relations. We want to support the expansion of renewable energies in partner countries and establish global trade in hydrogen.
Reliable and affordable prices for energy
The considerable fluctuations in energy prices have hit households and businesses in the EU hard. For this reason, we want a far-reaching, structural reform of the EU electricity market design to ensure better integration of renewable energies into the electricity market. The pricing mechanisms for electricity should be reviewed and geared towards renewable energies in order to limit price and feed-in fluctuations. Electricity must become permanently affordable. With a
reform of the electricity market design and a European framework for bridge electricity prices, we want to create the conditions for competitive electricity and energy prices throughout Europe. We also reiterate our call for a national bridge electricity price. At the same time, we are driving forward the expansion of renewable energies and the
In addition, unjustified profits must be effectively avoided and, in exceptional cases, siphoned off. The cost benefits of renewable energies should be passed on to all energy consumers.
be passed on to consumer groups. In addition, we are expanding the range of instruments that contribute to the renewal of production facilities, such as European climate protection agreements and carbon contracts for difference. We reject the promotion of nuclear energy through EU funds. No taxpayers' money should flow into the expensive and unreliable high-risk technology of nuclear energy. The future belongs to renewables, which are already our cheapest energy sources today.
Energy-efficient living
We expressly support the initiatives launched in the last European legislative period to make Europe's building stock fit for the 2030 and 2045 climate targets. Energy-efficient residential buildings are good for protecting the climate as well as for reducing housing and ancillary rental costs for all citizens in the medium and long term. However, the yardstick for assessing the climate balance should always be the entire neighborhood or community and not the individual building. At the same time, we reject any form of individual refurbishment obligations for citizens. The member states, municipalities and large real estate companies should move forward here. Owners and landlords of single-family homes or apartments must be supported in taking the path to 2050 in a self-determined and sovereign manner.
3. Social climate and environmental protection
Climate change threatens our human existence. Fast action is needed. The European Union must be climate- neutral by 2050. Germany is making an important contribution to this with its 2045 climate neutrality target. So that the EU becomes climate neutral by 2050 at the latest,
we support an ambitious science-based greenhouse gas reduction target for 2040. For the European Union as the world's second largest economy, this is a major challenge, but also an economic opportunity. We will ensure that everyone can afford and participate in the transition to climate neutrality. If jobs are secured and the state invests in climate-neutral infrastructure that benefits everyone, then climate policy will be widely accepted. Implementing the Green Deal will make energy cheaper and make us less dependent on fossil fuel and raw material imports. The energy transition is a joint European technical and social task. Together, we can show that a consistent policy for climate protection goes hand in hand with social security and fair opportunities.
Social Green Deal
We are the guarantors that the green transition in Europe is fair and socially responsible. A sustainable industrial and economic policy that focuses on the modernization of the entire value chain in Europe will secure jobs and create social prosperity. A strong welfare state and active social policy with strong national social security systems ensure that no one is left behind in the face of change and that everyone benefits from progress. This should be supported and flanked by European and national social dialogs involving the trade unions, among other things. In addition, the laws on health and safety at work must be further adapted to new climate risks and a right to retraining and further training must be established. We want to achieve the targets agreed in Porto at both European and national level and ensure that at least 60% of employees take part i n further training once a year by 2030. We also want a feminist Green Deal in which all projects to combat the climate, biodiversity and pollution crisis are reviewed for their gender-specific impact on women. With instruments such as the Just Transition Fund and the Social Climate Fund as well as the Renovation Wave and the good implementation of the European Structural and Investment Funds, we want to ensure that all citizens benefit from a green and sustainable future. We will use these funds, for example, for energy-efficient renovations, the expansion of charging infrastructure for electromobility and public transport in underserved areas.
Strengthening the European emissions trading system
We want the biggest polluters to pay for the consequential costs of climate change. That is why we will continue to strengthen the European Emissions Trading System as one of the biggest levers for reducing EU emissions. The European Emissions Trading Scheme II for buildings and transport from 2027 must be further developed so that CO2 prices are more predictable and the risks associated with investments in sustainable technologies are thus reduced.
Multilateral commitment to global climate neutrality
In order to prevent irreversible changes in the climate system, such as the Gulf Stream drying up, we must achieve a carbon-neutral economy and lifestyle worldwide by 2050 at the latest and stop generating energy from fossil fuels. This is why we are continuing to work with our European partners in multilateral forums such as the UNFCCC to achieve an ecological restructuring of the global economy. The recommendations of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) are the central benchmark for this. New superpowers such as China, India and Brazil will have to assume greater responsibility in the global community to protect the climate. We would like to motivate more countries to join the Climate Club initiated by Chancellor Olaf Scholz, which has now grown to 36 countries, so that an ambitious multilateral framework for the rapid decarbonization of the industrial sector can be created.
Increase international climate financing
The climate crisis is also a crisis of international justice. While it was caused by the rich countries in particular, it is being felt especially in the poorer countries. We will therefore increase international climate financing and advocate the creation of an international transformation bank. We support the provision of financial aid for climate-related damage and losses in the countries most affected by the climate crisis within the framework of the UN Climate Convention. We want to better coordinate bilateral climate partnerships at European level and initiate and implement new climate partnerships. The EU must continue to act as a climate pioneer and bridge-builder at international climate conferences. To this end, it is also necessary to upgrade and strengthen climate foreign policy in the European External Action Service and in the EU's representations worldwide, both in terms of personnel and funding.
Consistently protecting nature
The climate crisis is closely linked to the biodiversity crisis, which also poses existential threats. Overexploitation and pollution of land and sea as well as invasive alien animal and plant species have contributed to a severe deterioration of biodiversity and ecosystems. We will therefore take the necessary measures to implement the Montreal Biodiversity Convention and the EU Biodiversity Strategy. We are striving for sustainable agriculture and forestry and want to place 30 percent of the EU's land and sea area under protection. In doing so, we will maintain and secure the flexibility required for the expansion of renewable energies and the production of the necessary plants and grid infrastructure. We want a responsible
We want to protect our natural resources and health. We will therefore revise EU chemicals policy so that potentially harmful substances are also restricted or banned more quickly and may not be exported to other parts of the world. Especially where these substances are more likely to be
convenience substances are used, we must quickly restrict their use. In other areas, we need to develop substances with similar properties to replace harmful substances.
As a result, their use should also be restricted or banned in these areas
can. We will continue to consistently drive forward measures to protect nature and call for a zero- tolerance policy by the Commission when EU directives and regulations are violated.
regulations are not complied with. Infringement proceedings for failure to implement EU nature conservation legislation must be initiated consistently.
Investing in the restoration of nature
Just protecting what is still healthy is no longer enough. The state of our natural basis of life has been deteriorating for years. We need to restore nature and improve the disturbed balance of our ecosystems. We therefore want to adopt an ambitious law on soil health and provide sufficient funding for the restoration of nature, including within the framework of European agricultural funding, in order to counteract the rampant sealing of land and the loss of natural habitats in the EU.
Sustainable agriculture
The Common European Agricultural Policy must do more to achieve the environmental and climate goals it has set itself. At the same time, its contribution to securing farmers' incomes is not sufficient. European agriculture must therefore be better positioned for the future. So that Germany retains a strong agricultural base of its own in Europe,
farmers need good and reliable framework conditions. Fair conditions must apply in competition and necessary changes must be made fairly. In future, the remuneration of public services, such as sustainable management, the preservation of diverse cultural landscapes, environmental, pollinator, water and soil protection and the expansion of natural CO2 reservoirs, will be central to this. In future, this should offer fair prices for the food produced as well as an income for the provision of public services. We are striving to further develop agricultural funding that focuses even more strongly on aspects of climate protection, climate adaptation and biodiversity. The framework conditions for adequate agriculture must be created in such a way that comprehensive food security within Europe is even better secured while at the same time preserving natural resources and complying with sustainability criteria (ecological, economic and social).
Urgently needed reforms to adapt agricultural policy to the objectives of the Green Deal must be implemented. We want to continue to significantly reduce the use of pesticides. We want to support organic farming in achieving the target of a 25 percent share of land in Europe. The increased use of digital technology, AI and drones will play a key role in this. We reject genetic engineering in the conventional sense. We will examine the use of new genomic techniques (CRISPR/Cas, gene scissors) with an open mind. The precautionary principle and the associated comprehensive risk assessment in individual cases prior to any potential approval are our top priority. After all, new genetic engineering techniques can also have undesirable effects. Consumers who do not want genetically modified plants on their plates need freedom of choice. If new genetic engineering is approved, the traceability and labeling of products made with genetically modified plants is therefore essential.
At the initiative of the Social Democrats, for the first time in the history of European agricultural policy, compliance with minimum social standards will be a condition for receiving European funding in addition to climate and environmental protection.
This newly introduced social component in the CAP must be expanded. Contract workers and seasonal workers deserve to be treated fairly, and good employers and fair farm managers must be favored.
Protecting water as a public good
Large parts of Europe are suffering from extreme drought and heavy rainfall events. This not only prevents high-yield farming, but also increases the risk of flooding disasters. We are therefore calling for a European water
Strategy that looks at water problems across all sectors and includes all economic sectors and consumers. We want,
that water retention in the landscape is improved. European marine protection and fisheries policy
Many fish populations in the EU are suffering from overfishing. We want a European fisheries policy with science-based catch quotas that enables the recovery of overfished fish stocks and puts an end to harmful fisheries subsidies. We want to prevent overfishing through stricter controls on illegal, undocumented and unregulated fishing. We will place at least 30 percent of Europe's marine areas under protection and restore at least 20 percent of degraded marine ecosystems to a good state by 2030. An open dialog with the fishing industry is important to us so that investments, new business models and practices can be effectively supported and implemented.
Improve animal welfare
Animal suffering cannot be justified, especially not for economic reasons. We must therefore consistently focus on improving animal welfare in agricultural animal husbandry. We are calling for a Europe-wide standardized labelling requirement for farming methods and an animal welfare label for all unprocessed and processed animal products to enable consumers to make informed purchasing decisions. Eight hours of transportation of live animals must be the maximum allowed in the EU. We also need a ban on the transportation of live animals to third countries where compliance with animal welfare legislation cannot be guaranteed. We are also continuing to
to safeguard the welfare of wild and domestic animals.
4. Digitization for the people
Digitalization and artificial intelligence (AI) are changing all areas of our lives and economies. We therefore need a coherent and harmonized digital policy that covers all areas of life and involves all Europeans - a true realization of the Digital Union. Europe has achieved many milestones in recent years, such as the Digital Service Act, and has proven that a united Europe with its values can play a pioneering role in the digital world when it comes to shaping digitalization in a democratic, sovereign and fair manner. We want to continue on this path. We want to harness the potential of digital technologies for progress and prosperity in Europe. The latest technological developments have also made it clear that we need to position ourselves more independently and more crisis-proof. That is why we want to ensure the development and production capacities for the manufacture of key digital technologies and network technologies as well as the establishment of computing capacities, for example for the development of European AI models in Europe, and promote them even more than before.
With everything that is technically possible, we focus on the opportunities without losing sight of the risks and challenges. The essential pillars of our actions are our shared European values and a people-centered approach to digital transformation.
Protection, confidentiality and sovereignty in the digital space
In both the analog and digital world, we are committed to protection against discrimination and want fundamental rights such as data protection, privacy and freedom of expression and assembly to be guaranteed. To achieve this, citizens must be better informed about their rights. In the event of significant impacts on people's lives, we must ensure that it is people who make the final decisions and have the authority to act accordingly. Legal recourse against the decision must be open.
The protection of privacy and the confidentiality of communication are key prerequisites for citizens' trust in digitalization. The confidentiality of digital communication is a prerequisite for safeguarding fundamental rights and freedoms and our democracy. We therefore reject any form of mass surveillance. We reject the circumvention or breaking of encryption, the retention of vulnerabilities and the use of spying software by private or state agencies. We also firmly oppose the storage of data without cause and the monitoring of digital communication without cause.
We want citizens to have control over their data in a digital union. Digital profiling jeopardizes privacy and democracy and can lead to discrimination, misleading and manipulation for advertising purposes and political influence. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) was a quantum leap in data protection policy and demonstrates the outstanding performance of European solutions. It has become a global model that many countries are following. At the same time, however, the implementation of the GDPR has also shown that
some rules overshoot the mark and burden citizens, small associations with voluntary structures and small and medium-sized enterprises with more bureaucracy than necessary. We are therefore committed to the consistent implementation and further development of the GDPR. In addition to a high level of privacy protection and consumer protection, we also want to focus on reducing bureaucracy and digital progress. To this end, we will evaluate the regulation of digital platforms and make further improvements where necessary.
Effective and coherent governance
In recent years, the EU has introduced many pieces of legislation such as the Digital Services Act (DSA), the Digital Markets Act (DMA) and, most recently, the AI Act. In the next step, we want to ensure that sufficient resources are available for the effective implementation of the legal acts so that the requirements can be implemented in the member states in a transparent, solution-oriented and uniform manner.
Promoting democracy and combating disinformation
People are increasingly confronted with disinformation, deepfakes and other forms of manipulation. The deliberate or negligent manipulative effect of fake news undermines solidarity in our society and the resilience of our democracy. We want to protect the European public and our democratic institutions from these influences. We must not only focus on disinformation from outside, but also fight disinformation that originates within the EU.
This includes clear rules for digital platforms, such as those developed in Europe in recent years. We are committed to the effective enforcement of these rules through strong governance in order to counter fake news and hate speech online. We also want to support the establishment and support of Europe- wide non
commercially and decentrally organized digital communication and trading platforms. They should form a genuine alternative to commercial platforms. Effective rules and sanctions against so-called deepfakes are also needed.
The right of access to knowledge is one of the great achievements of the Enlightenment. In the analog age, this access was guaranteed and promoted by public libraries and universities. In the digital space, access to reliable information is much more difficult; for example, different license conditions often apply to physical books and eBooks, and the results of publicly funded research are often not freely available. We will therefore campaign for an Open Knowledge Act that breaks down barriers and gives researchers and citizens easier access to knowledge of all kinds.
Ensuring digital sovereignty
In addition to clear rules for digital markets and services and the use of data in accordance with fundamental rights, strengthening our digital sovereignty also requires greater technological and economic independence. We need to become more independent in the development, production and use of digital technologies and position ourselves better in a crisis-proof manner against influences such as cyberattacks from abroad, especially to protect critical infrastructures. Digital platforms and, in future, artificial intelligence will become an essential part of our infrastructure and services of general interest. In these areas, we want to minimize our dependence on manufacturers outside Europe. We also need to protect our democratic processes, including our elections, not only from disinformation, but also from cyberattacks. We also want companies that respect our fundamental rights and do not exploit them to be given preferential consideration in the awarding of public contracts. Finally, the use of open source should be promoted.
AI models with European values
Algorithmic decision-making systems can relieve administrative burdens, create new jobs or improve healthcare. However, they can also violate consumer and human rights, and this also applies to other methods of artificial intelligence. The development and use of artificial intelligence methods must follow European values. That is why we want to prevent the renewed dominance of large tech monopolies in the development and dissemination of AI models. We want to develop generally accessible AI models on a European scale and in accordance with European values, particularly for use in public administration procedures or where there is a high level of public interest, such as in the area of health, in order to avoid dependencies and set global standards "Made in Europe". We want to make the member states the drivers of these developments by demanding innovations "Made in Europe", e.g. in the field of AI or, in future, in the field of quantum computing, and thus ensure their scaling. We want to simplify and accelerate access to funding. In addition, we want to enable bundled European cutting-edge research in the field of AI in order to train and retain specialists in Europe. We are committed to independent data protection authorities, impact assessments and transparency and labeling obligations within the EU. This applies in particular to AI
basic models. It is also important to support small and medium-sized companies in the use of AI and to promote open source approaches in the field of AI.
An open and free Internet
The principle of net neutrality is a cornerstone of the open and free Internet and is not up for debate when it comes to expanding network infrastructures. Fair, equal access to the Internet for all users and services without restrictions must be guaranteed; we reject any unequal treatment of certain content by network providers. This also means that fast Internet must be affordable for everyone.
5. Turning Europe into a mobility union
The free movement of goods, services and people is a major achievement of the European Union. People use it for private and business purposes. The challenge is to make mobility climate-neutral, reliable and affordable as quickly as possible. Together with our European partners, we are facing up to this challenge and initiating a genuine European mobility transition. This requires a transformation in all areas of transport, including private transport, public transport and freight transport. Transport planning from a European perspective is also necessary to better connect border regions. This will promote economic development throughout Europe and open up the possibility of switching to more climate-neutral means of transportation. At the same time, European solutions simplify everyday life for mobile Europeans.
Advancing common European rail routes
Germany has the largest rail network in Europe. We are ensuring that a general overhaul worth up to 45 billion euros is carried out. We also want to use this joint national effort to invest in the construction and expansion of European railroad lines.
Building on the goal of a German cycle, we want to create the conditions for a European cycle which, in addition to increasing punctuality, also focuses on connections to European networks. We will increase the capacity, reliability, accessibility, availability and seamless cross-border operation of rail freight transport in the Union.
European trains as an alternative to airplanes
We want to actively promote the trend towards climate-friendly night trains and establish a European night train network. In the short term, we want to establish more ICE Sprinters, especially in competition with
Short-haul flights. Rail travel within Europe should be cheaper and more attractive than flying. The establishment of competitive and innovative high-speed train connections and night trains should be supported by all member states, as they represent an environmentally friendly and competitive alternative in international transport.
Clean mobility for all
As social democrats, we are committed to ensuring that all population groups have access to climate- friendly transport solutions and that no one is disadvantaged on the basis of social status or income. This also includes the promotion of public transport in rural areas and the preservation of good jobs in the transport sector. The conversion to climate-friendly means of transport in local public transport should also be significantly accelerated across Europe.
Europe ticket for public transport and Europe-wide ticket app
The Deutschlandticket is a great success. We want to work together to ensure that it is also recognized in our neighbouring countries, such as France. This should ease the burden on commuters in border regions and make local vacations easier and cheaper. Our vision is a European ticket for the entire EU. We also want to establish a cross-transport, Europe-wide booking option for international trains, buses and other mobility services on behalf of the public sector - with a mobile app throughout the EU. Together with our neighbors, we want to introduce an EU-wide ticketing system. Railcard discounts should be fully valid for cross-border connections.
Free Interrail ticket for all 18-year-olds
DiscoverEU is a successful project of the European Union. Every year, thousands of young people get to know Europe by train with a free Interrail ticket. In future, all 18-year-olds in the EU should have this opportunity. To ensure that young people with little money can also afford the travel costs, we want to gradually make uncomplicated funding possible via Erasmus+. We want to expand the DiscoverEU youth card with discounts on accommodation, food, sport, culture, learning activities and public transport.
More freight transport by rail
We are aiming for a much greater shift of freight transport from road to rail. This is an important key to achieving the Union's energy efficiency and climate targets. We need to give more support to the rail sector and promote the most efficient use of the network. Around three quarters of freight traffic is currently carried by road, which is around 1.3 million trucks a day. One freight train alone could replace up to 62 trucks! By 2030, we want to increase the share of rail freight transport to 30 percent of all freight transport for routes over 300 kilometers and to more than 50 percent by 2050. Rail freight transport in the EU needs higher capacity, reliability, availability and seamless cross-border operations. To achieve this, we are focusing on efficient European freight corridors and the digitalization of the railways. In particular, we will drive forward EU-wide funding for the nationwide introduction of digital automatic coupling (DAC).
Expand infrastructure for electric and hydrogen-powered mobility
We want to pave the way for electric and hydrogen-powered mobility. To this end, electric fast-charging stations are to be installed at least every 60 kilometers and hydrogen filling stations every 200 kilometers. We also want European support through targeted EU funding, start-up financing and pilot projects for shared mobility services, micro-mobility and autonomous driving. We need reliability through clear European regulations and funding.
These will also be available for research and development and for the establishment of key technologies, such as battery cell technology.
industry or autonomous driving.
Climate-neutral aviation and shipping, European ports and airports
Sustainable aviation fuels, such as e-kerosene, are a decisive step towards drastically reducing the aviation industry's CO2 emissions. More than 200,000 additional jobs could be created in Europe. This offers the opportunity for new training and education opportunities in the production of sustainable aviation fuels. It is important to us that fuel production does not compete with food production. We want to introduce an EU label for the environmental compatibility of flights. This will enable passengers to compare the environmental impact of flights and make informed decisions. We also want to increase the requirements for the use of sustainable fuels for cargo ships and support port cities in the rapid installation of shore-side power systems.
6. Financing the future
The ecological and digital transformation of the European economy and our society requires a high level of investment. This includes both public and private investment. There is no doubt that this is an enormous effort, but one thing is clear: we are investing in our future prosperity and a future worth living. In times of ongoing economic uncertainty, we continue to rely on fiscal leeway within the EU. In dealing with the pandemic, we have seen the role that far-sighted fiscal policy can play in stabilizing the economy. This state capacity to act in times of crisis remains important. The decisive factors here should be the innovative strength, adaptability and performance of companies and not the fiscal capacity of individual member states.
Investing in the future together
With the historic decisions on the European Recovery Fund, we boldly broke new ground under the leadership of the then Federal Minister of Finance, Olaf Scholz. Next Generation EU has provided a decisive impetus for sustainable investment in the future. Together with the SURE crisis instrument for short-time work, we were able to provide a powerful response to the crisis during the pandemic. We want to turn this strong sign of European solidarity into lasting progress towards integration. We are committed to permanently suitable instruments to support the European economy and its workers in the transformation and to respond to acute crisis situations in a spirit of solidarity, including through joint borrowing. After all, more public funds are needed to master the challenges of the socio-ecological transformation. We want to further develop the SURE crisis instrument and ensure that all member states can maintain their important social security systems even in times of severe economic crises through permanent European unemployment reinsurance, without this leading to permanent financial transfers.
Creating scope for investment
We want to reform European state aid law to ensure that necessary investments can be made at the right time. To this end, we want to speed up approval procedures. The approval of aid should be consistently linked to compliance with social and environmental criteria. Even countries with a higher level of debt must be able to master the climate-neutral and digital transformation and make social investments. We therefore urgently need a determined, coordinated and solidarity-based European
Investment policy. The restructuring of the European economy can only succeed if companies in all member states benefit from public support measures. Otherwise, there is a risk that the competitiveness of the single market as a whole will be weakened, to the detriment of the German economy, which benefits most from an efficient single market. A flexibilization of EU state aid law therefore requires that fiscally weaker member states can use European funds in the sense of a common investment policy.
Reform of the Stability and Growth Pact
We will continue to develop the Stability and Growth Pact. The aim is to enable future investments for the climate-friendly restructuring of our economies and digitalization. It is about anchoring realistic and binding rules for debt reduction and at the same time improving the comprehensibility and transparency of the pact. We will ensure sustainable public finances in all European countries without rigid austerity policies returning to Europe. With this in mind, the Social Democrat-led German government has succeeded in reaching an agreement among the member states on a reform of the European fiscal rules. Unlike the conservatives during the financial crisis, it has brought Europe together on this sensitive issue instead of dividing it. In future, member states will be able to agree individual debt paths with the European Commission that are based on realistic common standards. We reject rigid borrowing requirements for the member states, as they prevent investment and impair the states' ability to act. We are committed to further democratization in the area of economic policy coordination and to strengthening the role of the European Parliament in the European Semester. The policy recommendations within the framework of the European Semester must be in line with the EU's fundamental policy objectives, such as the Green Deal or the European Pillar of Social Rights.
Competitive financing of European companies
In order to promote investment and ensure the competitive financing of European companies, a common, functioning European capital market should finally be created. To this end, we will increase the political pressure for the completion of the banking union and, above all, the capital markets union with appropriate supervision. In this way, private capital can be mobilized across borders and channeled into companies. These companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, can use the capital market as a financing channel more easily and to a greater extent than before. At the same time, savers will benefit from broader access to investment opportunities for asset accumulation and retirement provision. In addition, a completed Capital Markets Union can make an important contribution to strengthening financial stability through greater diversification in corporate financing and also improve international competitiveness. In this way, we will create an integrated and liquid European capital and banking market and break up financial fragmentation within Europe. In doing so, we will promote growth and jobs and improve investor protection. In particular, the opportunities for start-ups in Europe must be significantly strengthened.
Creating prospects for urban and rural areas
All people should have the same opportunities to realize their full potential - regardless of where they live. Rural areas and small and medium-sized towns account for over 80 percent of the EU's territory.
Around a third of the entire EU population lives in these regions. These regions provide diverse and centrally important functions for society as living, economic, recreational, cultural and environmental spaces. Our aim is to support cities, coastal regions and rural areas in the sustainable transformation of our societies and to prevent individual regions from being left behind in the transformation process. An investment policy that shows people what Europe actually means for
has proven its worth, particularly in eastern Germany, and has made the catch-up process in the new federal states a success. We will continue to rely on sustainable funding for European regional policy in the future. Together with the social partners and civil society, our cities and regions should continue to be able to decide as unbureaucratically as possible which local investments they want to co-finance with EU funds. From 2028, we want to expand the European Structural and Investment Funds into a genuine transformation instrument that ensures socially just change and at the same time promotes innovation.
We will protect the EU structural funds even better against misuse by authoritarian governments. A powerful EU budget
Anyone who wants to develop the European Union further must be prepared to provide its budget with
appropriate financial resources. We want a European budget that is up to the challenges of our time. We are calling for additional funds to be invested in the EU's key policy areas that deliver recognizable European added value for the next multiannual financial framework in 2027. We believe that if the EU takes on a wide range of new tasks, as it has done in recent years, it should also receive the necessary funding.
To this end, we want to make the EU more financially independent of national governments. We want to relieve the German budget of contributions to the European budget and replace them with genuine own resources for the EU. The principle must apply: Revenues generated by European policies belong in the EU budget.
In order to strengthen the revenue side, we need European coordination and regulations in corporate taxation that effectively prevent tax avoidance and evasion by internationally active companies. With the minimum taxation of 15 percent at OECD level, we have already reached an important milestone; now it is important to implement the agreements in all member states and use the funds to strengthen the EU budget. Our goal is a uniform basic
corporate income tax of 15 percent on a uniform assessment basis in
Europe. We also want to introduce a comprehensive financial transaction tax on all securities and foreign exchange transactions in the short term, as well as an EU own resource by taxing share buybacks by companies. We are also strengthening the EU
budget through revenues from the new CO2 border adjustment mechanism (CBAM.
Own resources should not only fulfill a revenue function, but also contribute to achieving our political goals. As a party of social justice, we want to combat social inequality in Europe. EU funds must therefore be linked to criteria such as good work and collective bargaining.
III. A strong Europe in the world
The increase in conflicts around the world is already causing people to seek protection or a better life here, leading to rising prices and supply bottlenecks. The rules and institutions of global cooperation are under increasing pressure, and the war in Ukraine has seriously shaken the European security architecture.
We therefore need a strong Europe that defends our common values of peace, freedom and democracy and is committed to being a force for peace in the world. A Europe that also stands up internationally against poverty and exclusion and for peace, development and human rights. The EU's enlargement policy is an instrument of enormous transformative power. A growing Europe must be a better Europe. The Europe of 35 and more states cannot be led in the way that
This is why we advocate internal reforms, reformed institutions and leaner decision-making processes. Enlargement and reform must go hand in hand.
The European Union is already showing that cooperation makes us stronger than confrontation. That is why we n e e d	t o	look even harder for common ground between the member states and speak with one voice in the world. We will realign European trade policy and invest more in strategic partnerships - to secure important resources, but also to engage in peaceful conflict resolution, sustainable development and renewed trust in international relations. In doing so, we will t r e a t the countries of the Global South as equal partners and work to ensure that the feminist perspective is always taken into account. We want a migration and refugee policy based on solidarity that combines humanity and order.
1. For a peaceful Europe
The Russian attack on Ukraine has brought war back to the European continent. We know from the policy of dtente under Willy Brandt that military strength is important to protect the European peace project. That is why we want to strengthen the European pillar in NATO and take more responsibility for our own security. With the permanent stationing of a German brigade in Lithuania and the investment in joint air defense (European Sky Shield Initiative, ESSI) announced by Olaf Scholz, we are already increasing the quality and concept of our contribution to NATO - we want to expand this commitment further. At the same time, as the peace party in Germany, we will continue to focus on diplomacy and dialog, civil crisis prevention and peacebuilding as well as disarmament and arms control. Security and peace are inextricably linked, but peace is more than security. The triad of foreign, development and defense policy therefore remains the cornerstone of social democratic international policy.
Vision of a European army
We Social Democrats have long had the vision of a European army, because we know that important synergy effects can be achieved through joint investments and the organization of our armed forces. In line with the strategic compass of the European Union, we want it to become a more capable security actor. Even if NATO retains its central role in the defense of our alliance, we want to enable Europe to ensure security against external threats increasingly independently. We advocate greater harmonization in the training of soldiers in the EU and the strengthening of efficient and at the same time democratically legitimized decision-making structures in the Common Security and Defence Policy. For us, this includes in particular the involvement of the European Parliament, the strengthening of the office of the High Representative of the EU for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the establishment of an independent Council of Defense Ministers.
-Minister.
More joint European procurement
With the special fund for the Bundeswehr, we have proven that we are prepared to provide the necessary financial resources to make Europe more capable of acting in the area of security and defense. We must ensure that the investments that have been initiated are continued and are therefore committed to sustainable defense funding of at least 2 percent of gross domestic product. We want to create more incentives for collaborative spending on defense at European level by substantially improving European funds (EDF, EDIP). We are committed to greater transparency in coordinated European defense planning in order to increase the pressure on member states to meet their commitments. We also want more
Create synergies between NATO and EU planning processes and better coordinate the various innovation initiatives.
A single European market for defense
We want to achieve greater standardization and interoperability in Europe through more joint development and procurement. We want to actively promote and financially support joint armaments projects. We are also focusing on more standardized certification procedures and procurement cycles. It is also about harmonizing regulations in Europe in order to facilitate the transport of reinforcements to NATO bases.
eastern flank. And it is about a gradual liberalization of the European defence market for products that are not considered key national technologies.
Actively pursuing disarmament and arms control
Especially in times of global rearmament, it is our duty as Europeans to actively promote disarmament and arms control initiatives, as they are part of a forward-looking security policy. We will therefore actively campaign for an international set of rules on armed drones and establish arms control and effective regulation in the areas of bioweapons, cyber and artificial intelligence. We remain committed to the long- term goal of a world free of nuclear weapons.
Common European arms export policy
The war in Ukraine has made it clear that we need a more strategic approach in our arms export policy. As Social Democrats, we have carefully weighed up every arms delivery to Ukraine. An agreement on arms exports at European level is necessary for a single market for defense - different rules stand in the way of joint development and production. We therefore advocate a common and coordinated European arms export policy based on shared values and strategic priorities. European military equipment must not fall into the wrong hands. At the same time, we must provide better and more reliable support to our strategic partners.
2. A European Union for all Europeans
The EU's enlargement policy was and is a driving force for peace, democracy, the rule of law and prosperity in Europe. We want to continue this success story. We want to seize the opportunity to accompany our European neighbors in a lasting democratic transformation, also so that other actors do not take the place of the EU. After all, the EU's enlargement policy is one of the most important instruments of EU foreign policy.
Accelerate accession of the Western Balkan states
Over 20 years ago, the EU gave the countries of the Western Balkans the prospect of accession. After years of delay, it is now high time that the countries of the Western Balkans were swiftly accepted into the heart of our community once the accession criteria have been met. We are generally committed to establishing recognizable intermediate steps in the enlargement process and want to examine the extent to which, for example, access to the common internal market can be granted before full EU membership.
Ukraine as part of the EU
We want Ukraine and Moldova to become part of the EU as soon as they meet the admission criteria. Citizens and governments in both countries leave no doubt that they are ready to live the European idea, are already guided by common values and long for the protection of the community to be able to live in peace and freedom. For a
With our successful Eastern Europe policy, we want to create the conditions for the admission of Ukraine, Moldova and, in the future, Georgia and politically secure the admission process to the EU. With enlargement, we are sending a clear signal against the unilateral shifting of borders by Putin's Russia, committing ourselves to the joint reconstruction of Ukraine and enabling people striving for peace, freedom, the rule of law and democracy to gain access to our community of values.
European values as a basic prerequisite
We will align the admission of new member states even more strongly than before with our fundamental European values and place democracy, human rights and the rule of law at the forefront of the process. The Copenhagen criteria must always be fulfilled as a basic requirement. If fundamental EU principles are disregarded, the EU must be consistent and also protect the EU's canon of values vis--vis member states.
Deepening our relationship with our neighbors
We want to become more flexible in our cooperation with our European neighbors, because we benefit from bringing them closer to us. To this end, we r e c o g n i z e the potential of the so-called European Political Community in addition to long-established forms of cooperation. Even independently of the EU enlargement process, it is crucial to build trust and actively identify common interests with our neighbors, for example in the areas of sustainable energy, infrastructure and security.
The democratic Baltic Sea region also has an important role to play. It is one of the most innovative and competitive regions in the world. In addition to the necessary transformation efforts, there are other challenges that affect all Baltic Sea states equally: protecting the Baltic Sea, achieving energy independence, realigning security policy, coping with the consequences of demographic change, securing services of general interest, especially in rural areas, the future-oriented development of digitalization and the safe use of artificial intelligence.
3. Strengthening the EU's ability to act
The enlargement of the European Union must go hand in hand with treaty reforms. Only a capable and sovereign European Union will be in a position to accept new members. Even today - with 27 member states - the decision-making processes are already hampering the Union's progress and its ability to react in times of crisis. In the face of global challenges, efficient democratic decision-making structures are needed that take account of increasing complexity. A basic prerequisite for the enlargement of the European Union is therefore the implementation of institutional reforms. This is also the conclusion of the Conference on the Future of Europe, in which thousands of European citizens took part. At the same time, we want to strengthen the foundations - the values and democracies - on which the European Union is built. The question of the rule of law is not an internal matter for each member state, but its violation is a threat to the entire Union. Only if the EU manages to defend itself against its internal enemies of democracy can it credibly stand up for its values in the world.
Reforming decision-making processes
Veto rights of individual member states in the European Council, which already hinder the progress of the Union and are used as a means of exerting pressure, must be a thing of the past. An essential component of institutional reforms is therefore to replace the unanimity principle in the Council, where it still applies today, with the introduction of majority decisions. This will make the EU more agile, quicker to act and more democratic. If a sovereign Europe is our aspiration, then
Majority decisions are a gain and not a loss of sovereignty. Enforcing common values
The common European values apply to all member states - without exception. We are strongly committed to protecting democracy, the rule of law and human rights in the EU. To this end, we are using existing protection instruments more rigorously and developing new instruments to protect our common values. For example, we want to apply infringement proceedings for violations of the rule of law much more consistently than before. In addition, the European Council must urgently apply the fundamental values procedure in Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union (EU Treaty) and withdraw the voting rights of member states that systematically violate fundamental values. This is the only way we can prevent increasingly undemocratic member states from abusing their veto rights and holding the Union hostage in the short term.
To this end, it is also necessary to adapt the fundamental values procedure in Article 7 of the EU Treaty. The European Parliament needs more say and it must no longer be possible for individual member states to block sanctions in the Council. We are also calling for the EU Commission to take member states that violate the values of Article 2 of the EU Treaty to the European Court of Justice. In the future, it should also no longer be possible for states that seriously violate the values set out in Article 2 to bring the EU Commission before the European Court of Justice.
take over the Council Presidency. Financially sanction violations
There is also a need for stricter financial sanctions for violations of the EU's common values. In recent years, we have achieved that EU funds can be withheld from rule-of-law offenders. We must extend this means to all violations of the values of Article 2
EU Treaty, especially when the Union's budget is not directly threatened. The European Commission must take more consistent action here in future. Finally, we are calling for an independent Copenhagen Commission to monitor whether the Commission and Council are applying the existing instruments.
Strengthening European democracy
A central element for strengthening European democracy is the expansion of the role of the European Parliament as a central place of representation for citizens. This includes a genuine right of initiative with which the directly elected representatives of the people can initiate legislative projects instead of only being able to demand proposals from the Commission, as has been the case up to now.
We will also give citizens the opportunity to have a direct say in the leadership of the European Commission by casting their vote on election day, by advocating the legal establishment of the Spitzenkandidaten principle. Who can become President of the Commission should be determined in advance in a way that is transparent and visible to all citizens. Then the people of the EU can directly influence the future direction of European policy and make a significant contribution to strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the European Union. We also unite candidates from different member states in one European constituency. These transnational lists would strengthen the European dimension of the European elections and put European issues at the forefront of the election campaign. It goes without saying that we advocate equal representation on electoral lists so that the proportion of women in society is also reflected in the European Parliament.
European policy that listens to the people
Democracy is the guarantor of citizens' trust in the European Union.
institutions and decision-making processes. Only in a strong and vibrant democracy can people freely articulate their wishes and interests and jointly implement them in society. The conference on the future of Europe as an innovative and participatory form of citizen involvement clearly demonstrated the desire for a more effective European Union. We are committed to ensuring that these proposals are also incorporated into European legislation.
In particular, we want to follow the proposal to abolish the principle of unanimity where it is already possible under the existing treaties. In order to implement some of the citizens' more far-reaching proposals, it will be necessary to amend the EU treaties, as they either concern policy areas in which the EU does not yet have any competences or would require a change to the EU's institutional architecture. We are therefore campaigning with our European partners for the establishment of a European Convention.
Creating trust through transparency
We want to ensure that decisions are made in the interests of the common good in order to strengthen citizens' trust in the EU institutions. To this end, we are increasing the transparency and accountability of the EU institutions by advocating the establishment of a strong European ethics authority that sets common ethical standards for all EU institutions and monitors their implementation and compliance.
4. Strategically expanding international partnerships
A strong Europe networks in the world. The European Union needs international cooperation for its prosperity and security. That is why we are strengthening the rules-based international order, coordinating even more closely with our European partners and investing jointly in strategic partnerships. Federal Chancellor Olaf Scholz has already successfully championed cooperation and the definition of common interests with non-European states within the framework of the G7, the G20 and the United Nations - we are continuing and expanding this commitment.
Making Europe the partner of choice
Many countries in the Global South have turned their backs on the promises of liberal democracies because they do not see their expectations fulfilled. We want Europe to respond to this and win countries back as partners for projects and initiatives that support common values and interests with attractive and fair offers. We want to break up unequal and neoliberal power structures in North-South relations, strengthen human rights and promote democracy and sustainable development. For us, the yardstick for cooperation with international partners is the 17 sustainability goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda jointly adopted by the global community.
Peacekeeping and peacebuilding
Many countries around the world see Europe not only as a partner for security and prosperity, but also as a partner for peace. It is time for Europe to take on more responsibility for peacekeeping and peacebuilding. Conflicts and wars often have social, economic and ecological causes. These must be recognized and combated at an early stage.
A feminist foreign and peace policy that takes all members of a society into account and urges the overcoming of patriarchal and post-colonial power structures is an indispensable basis for this. In conflicts, gender-specific violence and other mechanisms of oppression against women occur structurally time and again.
We are therefore committed to the rights, resources and representation of women, girls and girls' organizations.
marginalized groups in all their diversity and support feminist movements, for example in Iran. Since the murder of Jna Amini by the Iranian morality police, many critics of the regime in Iran have been fighting against the mullah regime and for a self-determined life.
The mullah regime reacts to these protests with brute force, imprisoning and torturing protesters. In 2023 alone, 600 people were executed by the regime. We want to show solidarity with the courageous freedom fighters in Iran and stand firmly by their side.
International cultural and education policy are further important factors in conflict prevention. It is therefore crucial to involve civil society and, above all, to promote civil conflict prevention more extensively. In this way, we are investing in sustainably positive experiences with Europe and promoting educational and cultural projects,
cultural and scientific exchange. We will campaign for sufficient funding. Strengthening the transatlantic partnership
The Russian war of aggression against Ukraine has made transatlantic commonalities more prominent than they have been for a long time. The USA is Europe's most important security partner worldwide and one of its most important economic and trading partners. We want to further deepen trade relations, for example by making better use of the structures of the EU-US Trade and Technology Council. The long- term goal is a common transatlantic economic area with fair trading conditions in which industrial tariffs are abolished, market access barriers for future technologies, especially decarbonization, digitalization and the circular economy, are removed and common standards are set.
Common European policy on China
For us, China is a partner, competitor and system rival. Key global challenges cannot be overcome without China. China's significance as an important sales market for European companies is high. At the same time, European companies are competing with Chinese companies for market share and innovation - and China is working to restructure the international system in its favor. We want Europe to speak with one voice for its interests and values and therefore call for the development of a clear and consistent European strategy for relations with China that integrates existing concepts and decisions and adapts them where necessary. We want to drive forward cooperation on global challenges, promote respect for and the universal validity of human rights and strengthen multilateralism. At the same time, we need a European resilience strategy that reduces risks (de-risking), also with a view to protecting critical infrastructure in Europe. We need to diversify our economic relations in order to minimize economic dependencies, especially in the procurement of raw materials according to the "China plus one" principle, where we always have alternative suppliers in addition to China. This also includes prohibiting the import of products from forced labor in addition to the European Supply Chain Act.
Advancing the reform of the United Nations
In order to overcome the challenges of our time - poverty, climate change, loss of biodiversity, migration, pandemics, wars - global answers are needed. These can only emerge within the framework of a rules- based international order. We therefore want to work together towards functioning multilateral institutions and international agreements. We want to further strengthen the EU's cooperation within the United Nations. We want the United Nations Security Council to become more representative. We therefore advocate a reform of the Security Council, in which the Security Council is initially expanded to include nation states, especially from the Global South.
We want to create more participation rights for the European Union in the UN. We also want to strengthen the World Health Organization politically and financially. As a lesson from the pandemic years, we want to
We will establish short-term and long-term cooperation that ensures global sharing of technology, necessary knowledge, data and information. Together, we will be better prepared for future pandemics and the impact of climate change on the healthcare system.
Thinking development cooperation more in European terms
The EU - together with its member states - is already the world's largest donor in development cooperation and the largest promoter of democracy. We want to expand this position - both in the interests of our partner countries and in our own interests, as it is a long-term investment to achieve the 2030 Agenda and ensure prosperity and security. We are committed to the target of spending at least 0.7 percent of gross national income on development cooperation. A special focus must be placed on the least developed countries (LDCs). A feminist approach is also important to us in development policy. Projects should be further developed together with our partners in the Global South and with a particular focus on social, ecological and gender-specific inequalities and the fight against climate change. We are committed to a common approach to our global development cooperation and want to better pool our strengths at European level.
We therefore want to further enhance the role of the Commissioner for International Partnerships and strengthen the supervisory function of the European Parliament to ensure that development policy projects are implemented in a targeted manner.
The European Global Gateway initiative needs a new start, also in order to be a visible response to China's Belt and Road Initiative (New Silk Road). To this end, we want to better coordinate and bundle the funding of infrastructure projects. European investments in future-relevant infrastructure must come from a single source. We will ensure that the investments are developed and implemented together with the partner countries in order to be sustainable and effective on the ground. Successful projects, such as the new transport corridor between India and Europe initiated by us and our partners at the G20 summit in New Delhi, demonstrate the geopolitical relevance of such offensives.
Creating financial space for development
Together with our European partners, we advocate greater tax justice, transparency and information rights as well as global minimum taxation so that our international partners in particular can use the added value they have achieved to invest in their future. We advocate conditional debt relief programs in which the savings from the haircut are invested specifically in social and sustainable projects. We therefore need a debt haircut for the countries of the Global South that includes state, intergovernmental and private institutions.
We also want to establish further investment partnerships in order to bundle public and private investment for the development of sustainable value creation structures and enable socio-ecological growth through progressive regulation. In doing so, we ensure that the focus is on the goal of combating inequality.
5. A new direction for European trade policy
Europe's sustainable development and good jobs in Germany depend to a large extent on trade. At the same time, we know that The neoliberal dream that trade automatically leads to prosperity gains for all, political change and greater security in the world has come to an end. Moreover, in our globalized world, economic means are increasingly being used to settle geopolitical conflicts. We therefore need a progressive trade policy that improves the realities of people's lives - not only in Europe, but also in our trading partners. We want a strong Europe that is resilient and uses economic policy tools strategically to protect our
values and interests.
Diversify trading partners - especially in the commodities sector
The recent crises have made it clear that Europe suffers from one-sided dependencies in sensitive areas - be it imports of energy sources, raw materials, rare earths or medicines. This is why we want to diversify our trading partners and supply chains and thus create a resilient Europe that will be able to withstand future crises. A particular focus here is on raw materials, which are central to the socio-ecological transformation. We therefore need equal cooperation with resource-rich countries. This cooperation must consider the political interests and economic development needs of our partners as central - both sides must benefit from raw materials partnerships. Developing and emerging countries in particular must be enabled to create more of their own local value added, including through targeted support. In line with the Supply Chain Act, we take care to avoid negative impacts on human rights, the environment and the climate.
Anchoring enforceable standards in European trade agreements
Trade agreements that only aim to reduce customs barriers and liberalize markets are no longer in keeping with the times. Instead, we want comprehensive trade and investment agreements that include binding social (e.g. ILO-
core labor standards, governance conventions), human rights and environmental standards for the protection of workers and the environment as well as concrete complaint, review and follow-up mechanisms, which we implement jointly and on an equal footing with our trading partners. Our aim is to ensure that digital rights are also enshrined in trade agreements in times of global technological change. At the same time, we consider sector-specific trade cooperation (such as the US-EU-
Trade and Technology Council) in order to set global standards and expand strategic partnerships. Expanding competencies and instruments in the field of geoeconomics
We are committed to a European Union that pools its competences in foreign trade policy and protects and defends sovereign European decisions. We want to analyze our economic relations and dependencies continuously, proactively and in depth so that we can identify risks at an early stage. We will also continue to work on a broad range of geo-economic instruments that are necessary to respond to different challenges. The introduction of the trade instrument against economic coercion, which we Social Democrats are pushing for, is an important addition to the toolbox in this respect. With these instruments, we not only want to give the European Union the opportunity to assert itself as a geopolitical player, but also to take on this role and fill it with life.
Strengthening international rules for trade
We are committed to free, fair and rules-based global trade. We want to drive forward the reform of the World Trade Organization's dispute settlement system and the inclusion of climate and human rights objectives in the rules and standards of international trade. We will work to update the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures to effectively manage the growing global subsidy race. It is crucial to create a framework that increases transparency on the actual use of subsidies, which is also a crucial step towards regulating this race.
6. A refugee policy based on solidarity
Many people around the world continue to be forced to leave their homes. They are fleeing violence, terror and persecution. The vast majority of them seek protection as internally displaced persons in other parts of their country or in neighboring countries in their region. For quite a few, however, the European Union is also the place to finally find safety and peace. Despite the many challenges it faces, the community of 27 member states remains a stronghold of the rule of law and humanity. With this in mind, we want to strengthen the European Union so that, as a strong community, it can provide a humanitarian response to the people who need our protection and refuge.
Maintaining humanitarian responsibility
From our own history, the right to asylum, as a cornerstone of social democratic policy, is firmly anchored in our fundamental values and is non-negotiable for us. For us, there is no doubt that those in need of protection should be given refuge. Our migration policy is therefore based on the fundamental principle of humanity. At the same time, in order to obtain approval for an asylum and refugee policy based on the principle of humanity, we also need order and control in migration. All member states of the European Union, without exception, must naturally fulfill their European and international legal obligations with regard to refugee policy. We demand that the responsibility of the European Union is actually borne in solidarity in accordance with the regulations and obligations signed by all member states.
A Common European Asylum System based on solidarity
It is good that, after years of dispute, the member states of the European Union and the European Parliament have agreed on a reform of the Common European Asylum System (CEAS). This important ability of the European Union to unite must now prove itself in practice. We want a common system that no longer exists only on paper, but is adequately supported by all member states and helps people seeking protection in practice. For the SPD, the following is unequivocal: the individual human right to asylum and international refugee law are the irrefutable basis for this Common European Asylum System. This was and is non-negotiable for us. We therefore make it clear that a fair asylum procedure with high constitutional standards must also always be guaranteed in border procedures.
Special protection for unaccompanied minor refugees and families
We were able to ensure that minors traveling alone are generally exempt from border procedures. We also campaigned for the exemption to also apply to families with children and other vulnerable groups. It has been achieved that child-friendly accommodation must be guaranteed for families with children in border procedures. However, we still want families with children, as well as other vulnerable groups, to be excluded from border procedures as a matter of principle. It is therefore good that the European Asylum Agency is obliged to pay particular attention to the reception conditions for these groups. If it becomes apparent that child-friendly care cannot be guaranteed here, immediate action must be taken and families with children must be excluded from border procedures. We demand the same for other vulnerable groups, such as queer people seeking protection.
For us, the examination of individual asylum claims is paramount and not the blanket categorization by country of origin. We will closely monitor the human rights situation at the EU's external border. We want to prevent serious abuses and the creation of precarious camps so that disasters like the one in Moria do not happen again.
Ensuring legal protection in border proceedings too
For us, it remains crucial that the unrestricted and individual right to asylum and humanitarian conditions are also safeguarded in border procedures. Persons seeking protection whose asylum application is being examined in an accelerated asylum procedure must therefore be given the opportunity to obtain legal advice and legal counsel on a regular basis. The intended acceleration of the asylum procedure must by no means lead to restrictions on legal protection. We continue to advocate that appeals should always have a suspensive effect.
We demand compliance with all humanitarian and constitutional rules when ensuring the EU's external border protection. We make it clear: pushbacks are a blatant violation of international law. Tolerance by or even involvement of member state authorities or Frontex must not be permitted under any circumstances. Illegal pushbacks must be stopped and sanctioned immediately. We therefore expressly support independent monitoring of all national activities in the context of migration and asylum. In particular, the European Border Agency must investigate and, wherever possible, prevent human rights violations. To ensure that the EU's external borders are secure and governed by the rule of law, a comprehensive review of the systematic and structural problems of the largest EU agency is still required.
Duty of solidarity
The agreed duty of solidarity of all member states is a major step with which the European Union as a whole is fulfilling its humanitarian responsibility. This applies in particular to those member states - such as Germany - that have taken in large numbers of people seeking protection. This duty of solidarity must therefore be enforced by all member states from now on. In order to support municipalities that show solidarity in particular, we are calling for an additional fund at European level for the reception of refugees and for the necessary municipal infrastructure.
High standards and regular review of the security situation in countries of origin
It follows from the individual right to asylum that the grounds for asylum are reviewed on a case-by-case basis. People seeking protection must always have the opportunity to appeal effectively against negative asylum decisions. General assessments of the security situation in the countries of origin, which are taken into account in asylum procedures, must be regularly reviewed on the basis of reliable, constitutional criteria.
More paths for legal labor migration to Europe
Many people who apply for protection in the European Union have set off to work here. It must be clear that this is the wrong approach. At the same time, we need to create and demonstrate more ways of gaining access to the European labor market from third countries. Because in many places in Europe there is an acute shortage of workers, and not only (more) in the highly qualified sector. We therefore want to expand the existing options (e.g. EU Blue Card) and quickly harmonize national access options. The Skilled Immigration Act created in Germany, which is explicitly not only aimed at highly qualified workers, could serve as a model here. In addition, an ordinary work permit issued by a member state should also extend to the possibility of working in other member states (after a certain period of time, for example). We want to make it easier to issue EU visas for training or qualification purposes.
Creating safer and legal escape routes
We want to create legal access routes for refugees. The targeted admission of people directly from UNHCR reception camps (resettlement) plays an important role in this. Corresponding
Programs are already possible on a voluntary basis. We want more use to be made of this easily manageable and controllable measure. It is clear that we defend the individual right to asylum in Europe and reject the outsourcing of the asylum system to third countries. Safer escape routes are also needed to prevent deaths, especially in the Mediterranean. This is why we continue to advocate humanitarian visas, among other things: People with a history of persecution should receive a cursory preliminary asylum check at European Union diplomatic missions abroad in order to spare them the life-threatening journey across the Mediterranean.
Fighting the causes of flight
Violent conflicts, state repression, discrimination and massive human rights violations, poverty and the effects of climate change are among the most important triggers of refugee movements. Development policy measures that reduce a country's vulnerability to crises and improve social cohesion therefore make an important contribution to reducing the causes of displacement. That is why we want Germany to provide more support in stabilizing the political and economic situation, rebuilding structures destroyed by conflict and improving education and employment opportunities.
We want a fair world trade, currency and financial system that does not take advantage of the Global South, but instead ensures that value creation increases in the countries concerned, thus creating and maintaining the basis for a good local life.
The vast majority of people seek protection as internally displaced persons or in neighboring countries in their region. In many cases, these regions are also characterized by conflicts and fragile structures. We want the EU to show solidarity with these countries by supporting them in providing for refugees and migrants and preventing social and economic distribution conflicts with the local population.
We are committed to ensuring that EU funds are used much more where they are effective and where support is urgently needed: in the host countries, for the development of long-term structures and for human rights protection. We call for at least half of these funds to flow into long-term investments for the protection and care of refugees in host countries and the expansion of regular migration routes.
End deaths in the Mediterranean: Sea rescue and safe escape routes
The deaths in the Mediterranean must stop. Sea rescue is an obligation under international maritime law. Civilian sea rescuers who take on this task and humanitarian responsibility to save people in distress must therefore not be criminalized and will continue to be supported by us. Ultimately, we want sea rescue within the EU to be guaranteed by the state and safer escape routes to be created.
Relieving the burden on municipalities
The successful relaunch of the Common European Asylum System can only succeed if the new rules are implemented comprehensively everywhere. By introducing a European integration and municipal development fund, cities and municipalities that agree to take in refugees should receive financial support for integration costs and an equal amount for municipal development costs. Within this framework, citizens should also have a say in the organization of the reception of refugees. At the same time, we are implementing harmonized European rules for access to training and work. This applies to an extension of the so-called EU Blue Card, but also to simplified rules for longer-term stays in the EU.
IV. A Europe of respect
We want a European Union that stands firmly together. Even and especially when times are challenging. The basis for this is a Europe of respect. On the basis of our common values of freedom, democracy, peace and justice, we want prosperity for the many, not just the few. For us, respect means respecting and protecting different ways of life. It doesn't matter what your social or geographical background is, how you live and who you love, whether you are young or old, an academic or an unskilled worker. Because we have respect for each and every individual, we ensure equal opportunities, a right to participation, good education and good work. These are the foundations for a self-determined life. Respect therefore also means ensuring good work, combined with the promise of solidarity.
We are Germans with regional roots, but we are also Europeans. Both fill us with equal pride. The European Union is our common ground, which allows us to be different without fear or dreaming. With its shared values, the European Union creates identity. We are confidently building the future of the European Union on this common identity. In contrast, the right-wing populist policy of exclusion and demarcation misuses the enriching diversity in the EU as a bogeyman. It is disrespectful and misanthropic. We stand firm and united against their negativity with its seemingly simple, unsuitable answers, but especially against their lies and hatred.
It is the shared values that we live by that allow all member states to come together as equals in the European Union - regardless of their size, economic power or even military strength. Respect for the individual is the historical uniqueness of the European Union. We want to strengthen it for the benefit and well-being of all EU citizens.
1. Ensuring good work
From our history of the labor movement, it is clear to us that true respect for employees can only arise if they can collectively represent and negotiate their interests on an equal footing. This applies on both a small and large scale. Nevertheless, we as a state have a responsibility to ensure good framework conditions, as well as basic rules on occupational health and safety and wages. For the SPD, the central prerequisite for shaping a good future for all Europeans is that all the changes ahead of us can only be shaped together with employees and their trade unions. This requires strong co-determination in Germany and Europe, a high level of collective bargaining coverage and an active structural and labor market policy that focuses on the interests of employees.
Strengthening social rights
We do not want precarious work in Europe, we want good work. To this end, we will continue to resolutely implement the European Pillar of Social Rights at both national and European level. With common minimum standards for labor markets and social policy, the European Union has taken an important step towards harmonizing living conditions in Europe. This has also led to improvements in Germany (compliance with collective bargaining in public procurement law, minimum wage directive...), which would never have been implemented without social democracy. We want to continue on this right common path. To this end, we will also anchor the criteria for good work even more firmly in European structural policy, in the structural funds and in regional aid. Here we want to anchor collective bargaining, occupational health and safety and opportunities for training and further education as fixed components of the rules for awarding contracts.
Fair pay for all
Anyone who works full-time must be able to live off their pay. The EU Minimum Wage Directive was an important step in this direction. It obliges the member states to draw up action plans to increase collective bargaining coverage. The aim is for 80 percent of employees to be covered by collective agreements. Collective pay should be the rule. It ensures better pay and working conditions. Europe can do more to further strengthen national collective bargaining coverage. To this end, the allocation of EU funds should in future be more closely linked to conditions such as good work and
collective agreements. By including a mandatory collective bargaining clause, we will therefore be able to amend the concession and public procurement laws.
further develop directives. We are also fighting for a legal status for European artists and other self- employed workers with EU-wide standards for their minimum remuneration, working conditions and social security.
Digital dividend for all
Digital productivity gains must lead to a reduction in working hours for all employees and not to an intensification of work. Co-determination must also be strengthened in connection with the digital transformation. We want to involve employees' expertise to a greater extent when it comes to the digitalization of processes or even the use of artificial intelligence. Our aim is to strengthen the sovereignty and self-determination of employees.
Better protect employees from exploitation
Freedom of movement and fair mobility belong together. We want to improve the social rights of mobile EU citizens and protect them from exploitation and discrimination. That is why we are campaigning for a single European social security number and a digital social security passport. The reform of the coordination of social security systems must ensure the social protection of mobile workers and effectively combat abuse. We also want to ensure that more decisive action is taken against wage theft, wage and social security fraud and that minimum standards for accommodation put an end to the undignified accommodation of mobile workers. We want to achieve more national and European controls, stronger coordination and the expansion of fair mobility advice centers throughout Europe in order to improve the situation of workers. This also includes extending the mandate of the European Employment Agency to monitor workers from third countries, subcontractor chains, private employment agencies, better access to data and more powers for cross-border inspections. The principle of "equal pay for equal work in the same place" must be enforced in all member states. We need an ambitious directive on platform work that creates a framework to combat bogus self-employment and strengthen collective rights. We are committed to fair working conditions and fair competition in the European logistics sector, especially for truck drivers. We also want an EU directive on protection against mental stress in order to respond to the increase in stress, work intensification and time pressure.
For a European supply chain law
We also want to make our contribution outside the European Union to fair working conditions, the protection of human rights, environmental protection and the fight against climate change. The German Supply Chain Act is an important first step here, which we are supplementing with a strong European Supply Chain Act. In this way, we want to prevent products that are manufactured using forced labor or exploiting people and nature from entering the European single market in the first place. That is why we support the regulation on a ban on products manufactured using forced labor, with strong powers for the EU Commission.
Good work through strong employee rights
Co-determination is a key element in strengthening democracy in companies and workplaces. Co- determined companies are more innovative and more successful. We therefore want to strengthen co- determination. With an EU
framework directive on information, consultation and co-determination, the patchwork of different co- determination rules should be consolidated. In addition, democracy in the workplace must be strengthened as part of a reform of European company law. If national thresholds for the validity of co- determination are subsequently exceeded, there must be an obligation to renegotiate. We also want to strengthen European Works Councils (EWCs) within the framework of the directive. This applies above all to access to justice, the definition of cross-border issues and appropriate sanctions.
Strengthening the European social partnership
As in Germany, we also want trade unions and employers at European level to actively take advantage of the opportunity to shape European social and employment policy. To this end, we will strengthen social dialog within the framework of the European social model: joint agreements between the social partners should be swiftly translated into binding legislation. Europe needs an economy that serves the people.
That is why the fundamental social rights of the European Union must finally be given priority over fundamental economic freedoms.
We also make it clear that the right to strike must not be undermined; it is part of a strong internal market. Good (education) training
A good education is a prerequisite for a successful professional life. Good education and training should not depend on a person's background, gender, disability or the parents' financial and social situation.
Following on from the European Education Area 2025 initiatives, we are therefore committed to a genuine European education revolution. We want to guarantee all children in the EU inclusive, equal and high- quality primary and secondary education by 2030. At the same time, we are calling for a binding quality framework and adequate funding for the Youth Guarantee, according to which all young people in the EU should be offered a high-quality job, apprenticeship, further education or internship within four months of leaving school or becoming unemployed. It is also important to us to ensure that internships are remunerated in order to strengthen the rights of young people. At the same time, we want to facilitate the cross-border placement of apprenticeships and jobs. We are also committed to greater broad-based support for European universities that benefits all students. Our goal remains fee-free education from nursery school to apprenticeships and first degree courses through to master's degrees. We are striving to achieve this at EU level.
far ahead. The Bologna reform was intended to create a common European higher education area
- with comparable degrees and greater student mobility. We are working within the EU to ensure that these goals continue to be consistently achieved. We want a significant increase in investment in education and are particularly committed to strengthening the European Solidarity Corps and ERASMUS+. Our aim is to ensure that everyone who wants to can have at least one ERASMUS+-funded learning experience abroad by the age of 25. We also support European and international youth associations in their political and cultural education work. Cross-border projects and encounters in particular actively help to break down prejudices and allow young people to experience the growing together of Europe.
Europe.
2. Guaranteeing social security
More than one in five EU citizens is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Poverty divides the continent and weakens cohesion. Building a European social union is therefore a key concern for us. Social Europe must be strengthened and brought into balance with fundamental economic freedoms. We therefore advocate a social progress protocol to be annexed to the European treaties. The European Pillar of Social Rights and the goals developed from it at the Social Summit in Porto 2021 will continue to guide our actions in the next legislative period. Strong social security systems support people in times of change and enable them to live in dignity. We want to set the right framework conditions for this.
Common standards for basic security systems
We want solid social security networks to be available in all member states of the European Union. We therefore advocate a framework directive to define minimum standards for the respective national basic social security systems. Minimum security benefits must provide adequate, poverty-proof income support as well as support services for (re-)integration into the labor market.
)integration into the labor market. In this way, we create the conditions for reducing involuntary and poverty-related migration within the European Union.
Protection from child poverty
Special efforts are also needed to protect children and young people affected by poverty if we want to achieve the goals agreed in Porto: to lift five million children out of poverty in the EU by 2030. We will therefore effectively support the national implementation of the European Child Guarantee and provide sufficient EU funding for this within the framework of the European Social Fund. In addition, the social funds must be better funded in the coming funding period. This will also benefit our social democratic idea of a basic child guarantee, especially for the expansion of infrastructure for education and participation.
Introduction of a European disability card
The new strategy for people with disabilities aims to further promote equal opportunities and equal access to participation in social and economic life. We are committed to a European Disability Card and the improvement of the European Parking Card for people with disabilities with the aim of removing barriers to participation and promoting equal opportunities.
to make use of compensation for disadvantages in the areas of mobility, culture, leisure and sport. In this way, the rights of people with disabilities are to be asserted in all European member states.
Affordable housing, especially in cities
Our aim is to ensure natural access to good, barrier-free and affordable housing. We want to create liveable city centers with a sufficient supply of affordable, long-term rental apartments. In doing so, we are countering the ongoing shortage and the resulting sharp rise in rents. The EU must provide greater support for investment in affordable, social and energy-efficient housing and give member states sufficient leeway to make the necessary investments in social housing. We also need more European flexibility in the granting of state housing subsidies. In addition, we want to further strengthen the European exchange between national players. Rental housing, not
Vacation apartments must be the norm in cities. That is why we are backing local authorities that restrict the conversion of rental apartments into vacation homes and are committed to giving cities with tight housing markets the option of limiting short-term rentals. European legislation is needed to put a stop to the worst excesses of conversions and to protect tenants in tight housing markets. We will also focus on the growing market for furnished rented apartments in order to prevent this from undermining regulations for affordable housing. We want to expand the opportunities to use EU funds to promote the creation of affordable housing, particularly for young people.
Overcoming homelessness in Germany and Europe
Our goal is to end homelessness in Germany and Europe by 2030. That is why we support the European Platform to Combat Homelessness. We are convinced that the solution to the often complex problems of homeless people must start with a home of their own. This Housing First
We support this approach and want to expand it further. In addition, the SPD is committed to ensuring that the topic is given even greater priority in the new Commission.
3. Access to good healthcare
Everyone in Europe should have safe access to the necessary medicines and the latest therapies at affordable prices. The coronavirus pandemic has shown how important a coordinated approach among the member states can be. We therefore want Europe-wide networked and patient-oriented health prevention and care. To achieve this, we need a strong European Health Union. Together, we can combat supply bottlenecks, ensure fair prices for medicines and strengthen the care sector.
Preventive measures to combat supply bottlenecks
We want to sustainably combat supply bottlenecks, especially for critical active ingredients or vaccines. To this end, we are committed to the EU
pharmaceutical legislation to further develop preventive mechanisms such as monitoring, shortage management plans and reporting obligations. We advocate a European instrument for monitoring and identifying drug shortages and increasing transparency in the supply and authenticity of medicines.
Fair prices for medicines
We want more joint European procurement of medicinal products in order to achieve the best price- performance ratio. Ensuring access to medical innovations for all EU citizens also requires a Europe-wide, fair system of pharmaceutical pricing and benefit assessment. We advocate a system based on solidarity that is geared towards the political, market and economic framework conditions and the purchasing power of the European partner countries and, where applicable, other purchasing countries.
Good and safe care at home and on the move
To ensure the cross-border treatment of patients in the European Union, we need Europe-wide interoperability of health data with secure and uniform standards. In doing so, we will ensure that patients always retain control over their health data. In the future, we want to further facilitate access to treatment and the free choice of doctor for short-term stays in other EU countries, whether as a tourist or seasonal worker, and ensure simple and fast digital access to health data.
More effective use of billing for treatment in other EU countries. Further strengthening of care
With the European long-term care strategy, we have brought the issues of care and support into focus and thought them through together. We now want to implement the strategy consistently, in particular through more state investment in the care sector and the introduction of binding European regulations.
To this end, we want to transform informal work into formal work and ensure regular and good working conditions and combat precarious working conditions, particularly for women in private households.
More incentives for innovation and increased fight against resistance
We want to create new incentives for research and the development of urgently needed novel antibiotics. At the same time, we want stronger oversight of antibiotic use to respond to the increasing cross-border health threat of growing resistance. To this end, we will advocate for the full implementation of the European One Health Action Plan against antimicrobial resistance and increased cooperation with our international partners with the aim of achieving a global agreement on the use of and access to antimicrobials. We will also work to ensure that the chronic consequences of infections are made a priority
- people suffering from Long Covid, Post Vac and ME/CFS, for example, urgently need approved medicines and deserve our solidarity. As part of the European research program, we will continue to advocate for the advancement of gender-specific medical research and the expansion of therapy development in the field
o f autoimmune diseases.
4. Ensuring a non-discriminatory society
A Europe of respect is a discrimination-free Europe, because discrimination-free societies are happier, healthier, more resilient, more prosperous, safer and, above all, fairer. Nevertheless, we are increasingly seeing attempts to undermine the rights of women, people with disabilities and LGBTIQ+ people in some member states. Group-focused misanthropy, homophobia, racism and anti-Semitism are poison for good and peaceful coexistence.
These anti-human and anti-democratic tendencies are visible within the EU and worldwide. We will not accept and allow conservative and right-wing governments to question and attack the rights we have fought for. Women's rights, the rights of people of color as well as the rights of people with disabilities and LGBTIQ+ people are human rights. We have achieved a lot in Germany and Europe in recent years and decades - but by no means everything.
Developing the EU Charter on Women's Rights
We call for an EU Charter of Women's Rights. We need a catalog of fundamental rights to be protected, absolute minimum standards, such as universal access to contraception, sexual and reproductive health and rights, including reproductive self-determination and safe and legal abortions as well as sex and relationship education. We also strive to ensure that there is free, low-threshold access to abortifacients such as the "morning-after pill" in the long term. Safe abortions should also be available free of charge to as many people as possible in the EU in order to ensure reproductive self-determination and health. The aim must be to protect, expand and enshrine rights. The right to safe and legal abortion should also be enshrined in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Renewing European equality strategies
The European Gender Equality Strategy must continue to be implemented effectively, particularly in the form of qualitative and quantitative measures that strengthen women's participation in the labor market. The LGBTIQ equality strategy, which now exists for the first time from 2020 to 2025, must also be consistently implemented and continuously developed. Both strategies should be renewed for the period from 2025 to 2030, taking into account previous experience and with their own budget.
Economic independence for women creates social justice
We want to close the gender gap in employment, pay and social security in order to strengthen women's economic independence. Above all, we need high-quality jobs as well as fair wages and pensions. We are proud that we were able to push through the European directive on pay transparency, which means that more women receive their fair pay. However, there is still a need for implementation, especially with the German Pay Transparency Act. In order to close the gender pay gap, we are campaigning for an EU directive on anti-discrimination in wages in addition to the implementation of the directive on pay transparency. Because it is clear to us that pay transparency alone does not do justice to our social democratic aspirations. We want equal pay for equal work in the same place in the European Union. The adopted minimum wage directive will also ensure that women in particular, who often work in the low- wage sector, are better protected from poverty. We also want to close the gender gap in care and support. Care work is still a woman's job and must not remain so. We are therefore striving for the "equal carer - equal earner" model, i.e. a gender equality-oriented employment and care model.
Getting more women into management positions
We empower women in the economy, especially as founders of companies and start-ups. We ensure that women are more fairly represented in decision-making processes in politics and in companies. Quotas and zipper lists, but also a better gender-sensitive political culture and corporate culture are suitable measures here. The EU Leadership Directive (2022) is a milestone for gender equality in Europe. It strengthens the position of women on supervisory boards and paves the way for them to join the management boards of listed companies. As a next step, we plan to look at the management boards of all companies based in the European Union.
Tax equality
Women consume differently and have lower incomes - but bear a higher VAT burden. We are committed to ensuring that the tax burden is finally distributed more fairly. This ranges from reduced tax rates in the EU on feminine hygiene products to the abolition of the additional price on products and services for women (pink tax). In other words, we ensure that equivalent products and services cost the same for men and women.
Fighting and preventing violence against women together
In order to end male violence against women, we must address, analyze and break down harmful norms, structures and stereotypes, promote sex education in schools and offer Europe-wide violence prevention through gender-sensitive educational programs for boys and girls. Only a rethinking of society as a whole and the anchoring of modern role models will promote the equal perception of women in all areas of society and thus also put an end to violence.
The adoption of the Istanbul Convention is a strong signal from the EU that common values are non- negotiable - including women's rights. It must be a matter of course in all member states of the European Union to take consistent action against gender-based violence. The Istanbul Convention must therefore be ratified in all EU member states and the provisions must be transposed into national law.
right can be transferred.
The directive on combating gender-based violence is also an important step towards establishing Europe- wide minimum standards for the protection of women. We want to go further and are campaigning for gender-based violence to be recognized as a European-wide criminal offence in order to be able to combat all forms of violence against women even more comprehensively in the future.
Protect against human trafficking and exploitation
We want to continue Europe's joint fight against human trafficking and adapt the existing legislation to the latest challenges in this area. A key objective must be to protect women who are trafficked into and within the EU for the purpose of sexual exploitation.
Equality and parity in the European institutions too
We are striving for gender parity in the new EU Commission and will ensure that a female Commissioner is once again explicitly responsible for the topic of equality - equality between women and men, anti- discrimination and LGBTQI+ rights. We are also committed to further strengthening the European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE). The EU budget should be set up in a gender-equitable way using the instrument of gender budgeting.
Protecting the rights of queer people
The European Union guarantees the freedom of queer people. This has been expressly decided by the European Parliament with the support of the Social Democrats. The declaration and support of the "LGBTIQ+ Freedom Zone" follows a concern that steps taken towards the freedom of queer people are acutely endangered. We stand in the way of any discrimination and hostility. We call on the EU Commission, as guardian of the treaties, to react harshly to the anti-LGBTIQ+ actions of individual member states. They are incompatible with the values of the European Union. They must be stopped and reversed. We also demand that European rainbow families are not hindered in their freedom of movement and that registered civil partnerships and same-sex marriages are recognized throughout the EU.
Protecting national minorities
In accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, we are committed to protecting national minorities in Germany and Europe and support measures to preserve their cultural heritage.
An age-appropriate Europe
Active and healthy ageing has a positive impact on society, the labor market, social systems and productivity. We therefore campaign against age discrimination and want to help people to lead their lives independently for as long as possible and to b e able to participate in society.
5. Protecting security and freedom
Respect also means living without fear of crime and being allowed to be different without fear. All Europeans should feel safe in the EU and have the freedom to inform themselves independently and form their own opinions. To this end, we want to protect the independence of the media and take more effective action against disinformation. Crime often takes place across borders, which is why our national police and security authorities must cooperate even better. We want to set rules at European level to strengthen European consumer protection in the single market. In view of an increase in climate change- related disasters, in addition to other emergencies, we also want to improve civil protection by working even more closely with our European partners and, where appropriate, managing them centrally.
Ensuring freedom of the media
Media freedom is an essential part of the fundamental rights of European citizens. In recent years, we have seen how pressure has been exerted on the media in Europe and how European values have been violated. It is therefore high time to strengthen the independence of the media in all member states and to push back state influence where it is abused.
Governments must not be allowed to influence the reporting of public and private media or exert pressure on journalists. To this end, we are further developing joint instruments to protect the independence of the media and ensuring that non-governmental and civil society organizations are directly supported wherever democracy and the rule of law are under particular pressure. To this end, we are working towards a special fund for democracy and the rule of law.
Strengthening cross-border cooperation between security authorities
We want increased cross-border cooperation between police forces and security authorities in the European Union. This includes, in particular, strengthening Europol in supporting the member states. Cooperation should focus primarily on combating economic and cybercrime. It should also focus on trafficking in weapons, drugs and human beings, with a particular emphasis on sexualized violence against children and violence against women. It also remains the case that we can only counter extremist or terrorist acts of violence together as a European Union. To ensure that cross-border work works even better, we are committed to continuous training and further training with the same standards, e.g. with the help of the EU Agency for Law Enforcement Training. We also want to strengthen judicial cooperation at EU level. This applies to the European Union Agency for Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters (Eurojust), as well as to the expansion of common channels for the secure exchange of data. Further attention will be paid to combating money laundering with the planned anti-money laundering agency AMLA. With regard to the planned European anti-money laundering
AMLA agency, we are committed to the Frankfurt location. Strengthening the European Public Prosecutor's Office
The European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO) is an important authority in the fight against
(tax) fraud, corruption and money laundering. We are striving for all EU member states to quickly join the authority, in addition to the current 22 member states. We want to further strengthen the work of the EPPO by providing sufficient financial and human resources for its work. We want to e n s u r e better coordination between the national prosecution authorities, as well as in cooperation with European agencies such as Europol, Eurojust and the EPPO.
Facilitating the seizure of assets
The war in Ukraine has made it clear that increased European cooperation is also essential when it comes to investigating war crimes, punishing non-compliance with EU sanctions or confiscating and freezing the assets of oligarchs or members of organized crime.
Expanding European civil protection and strengthening crisis competencies
In the face of multiple crises and major disasters, we are committed to a European resilience strategy. It should encompass different types of challenges, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, pandemics and other emergencies. We want to further strengthen the Emergency Response Coordination Center (ERCC) and better link it to the civil protection structures of the member states. There must be no bottlenecks in the European Union in the
supply of critical goods. When exercising crisis competences, the Commission must be subject to genuine parliamentary control. It may not exercise emergency powers without the active consent of the European Parliament.
Strengthening European consumer protection
The abolition of roaming charges, uniform charging cables and high standards for consumer and environmental protection are just a few examples that reflect the power of 450 million consumers in Europe. As citizens, we must be able to make informed decisions in order to actively contribute to tackling climate change and ensure fair coexistence. That is why we want to limit the opportunities for manipulation on the internet, which are far too often used to trick consumers into making decisions that they subsequently regret (dark patterns. Investment decisions are also often misguided by false incentives from intermediaries. We therefore advocate a ban on commission for the brokerage of financial services.
Empowered consumers need effective market supervisory authorities and a competition watchdog at their side that puts consumer protection first. Consumers must not be made solely responsible for the enforcement of market rules. This is why online marketplaces in particular must be held more accountable, have their own inspection obligations and be held liable for negligence. We want to consistently prohibit dynamic pricing by monopoly companies as an unfair business practice.
Decriminalization of cannabis
We are convinced that a licensed and controlled supply of cannabis will help to reduce the illegal drug trade and minimize health risks. We are committed to the responsible, swift legalization of cannabis in accordance with European law and want to create the legal conditions for this. The protection of health and young people is our top priority.
V. Conclusion
In times when Europe is once again threatened by nationalists and right-wing populists, in times of war on the European continent, in the face of social and economic imbalances and increasingly noticeable climate change, new impetus is needed to strengthen the cohesion of the European Union. As social democrats, we are united in the certainty that we as Europeans can only shape a better future together. In recent years, we have clearly shown that we as Europeans are capable of doing this. But there is still a lot of room for improvement.
For us, there is no either-or. The necessary restructuring of our economy, good jobs for the future, climate protection and support for the many - the SPD brings them all together. We shape progress so that things are fair.
Our Europe is socially and ecologically sustainable. Our Europe is fair, also in its external impact. Our Europe is strong and capable of action. For a better future and for our common security in all areas of life. Our Europe is a strong Europe because it holds together and because it makes people's lives better.