 
European election program 2024-2029
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 INTRODUCTION
European election program 2024-2029
Our vision for the European Union (EU) is a climate-neutral, innovative, fair and federal Europe. We are convinced that a strong Europe is the solution to overcoming crises.
First of all, the EU needs radical democratic change. This does not just mean a top-down change, but the collective participation of all citizens and the European Parliament. For our defensive democracy, we stand for a European constitution. This will anchor our rights in a new system that is not only more responsive, but also more appealing to everyone.
We are committed to a permanent general citizens' assembly. Here, all European citizens can actively participate in shaping the future and democracy of the EU. This will promote trust, transparency and our European community.
We want to renew the European Parliament. It should b e characterized by transnational parties and have the power to initiate, amend and approve legislation. In this way, governance should be based more on the interests of the citizens than on the concerns of the member states.
Publicly accessible meetings and qualified majority voting must replace outdated veto powers to ensure that decisions are in line with the European Constitution. In this new federal Europe, member states can no longer disregard EU principles. Similarly, the European Court of Justice must have enhanced powers to prevent democratic decay and protect the integrity of the Union.
We want to revive Europol in order to strengthen Europe's internal security and to be able to resolutely counter any threat to Europe's security.
In addition, we believe that the EU must welcome new members who share our commitment to democratic values and human rights. We are laying the foundations for an EU that actively promotes justice and equality, secures European peace and prosperity and prevents social division and the destruction of democracy.
The EU economy must achieve net-zero CO2 emissions by 2040 by minimizing greenhouse gas emissions and offsetting them with carbon sequestration technologies. Companies and European citizens should actively work together on political goals and thus create a wave of collective action.
Volt Europe	2Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 INTRODUCTION
This future cannot succeed without the solid foundation of an independent energy supply in the EU. We want to achieve energy self-sufficiency by 2040 by p r o d u c i n g all energy from renewable energy sources, nuclear energy and hydrogen in Europe. In doing so, we represent the idea of a green future for Europe. All citizens should be able to participate in the development of a diverse and flexible energy mix and energy storage infrastructure. In this way, we want to enable a stable and reliable energy supply.
The creation of a green European economy requires a redesign of the EU's infrastructure. This includes sustainability, resilience and convenience. High-speed trains, efficient public transport, clean energy and advanced internet c o n n e c t i v i t y	are the foundation for Europe's future. Our waste management systems must be sustainable and investment in infrastructure must act as a bulwark against the effects of the climate crisis. On the other hand, they should create jobs and boost economic growth.
We therefore strive for economic prosperity and growth that is seamlessly linked to environmental protection and sustainability.
protection. We are redefining growth by introducing a "Green Net GDP". Carbon and resource pricing mechanisms will steer industries towards sustainability. At the same time, the revenues generated should promote innovation and the transition to a greener economy.
A pan-European social contract should ensure that prosperity is a common heritage in which citizens actively shape economic decisions. The first condition for such a treaty is to create equal opportunities. Our goal is a Europe in which every citizen is empowered to develop his or her full potential and does not experience inequality based on social background, disability, ethnicity or religion.
Such efforts must also include a fairer and more transparent system against tax evasion and avoidance. Through global cooperation, high transparency and effective enforcement, we must create a progressive and lean tax system. Every citizen should be able to make a fair contribution and at the same time rely on a fair share being paid. Our vision: breaking down barriers to success and shaping a society in which fairer wealth distribution and equal opportunities thrive.
Inclusion includes a firm commitment to accessible healthcare for all. Above all, we want to offer children a solid foundation for their careers. Young people should be supported through inclusive, gender- and culturally-sensitive education. Daycare centers and preschool programs should improve the opportunities of every child and provide unrestricted support. This applies to every child. The education system should lead us into a future in which primary, secondary and higher education are not luxury goods, but an opportunity for all. Financial resources must do justice to this aspiration and pave the way for a society based on inclusive values.
Volt Europe	3Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 INTRODUCTION
Our educational concept places the pupils at the center by incorporating interdisciplinary learning and project-based approaches. In our vision, education goes beyond the mere acquisition of knowledge: children should develop into responsible citizens by learning democratic participation, media literacy and critical thinking. Education systems that are harmonized across borders promote a socially united Europe that celebrates cultural differences and enables mobility.
Valuing diversity in Europe requires respectful, dignified and compassionate treatment of migrants and refugees, including climate refugees. We want a continent without deaths in the Mediterranean. A continent where economic migrants are not criminalized and people seeking refuge have not only the right to exist, but equal rights and opportunities. This includes access to essential living conditions, basic healthcare, employment opportunities and education. The latter includes education in the respective national language.
Respect and dignity are the cornerstones of our social policy. This includes robust workers' rights, decent wages, health and safety protection, trade union rights and flexible working arrangements. A comprehensive social safety net should develop and benefit employees, entrepreneurs and freelancers alike. There should be the opportunity to take risks without the threat of financial ruin.
Tackling our challenges at national level alone would not be enough. Our vision for Europe therefore goes beyond mere unity. We call for the EU to become a symbol of strength and diplomacy on the global stage. This includes European armed forces that defend democracy across Europe and beyond its borders and work for solidarity and security. Supported by a common defense budget and targeted, strategic resource management, this development not only secures the interests of Europeans; it also creates independence. At the same time, the principles of democratic accountability are upheld.
A future common EU foreign policy that radiates cohesion and proactivity on a global level is indispensable for this. We call for a European Foreign Minister and a European Foreign Ministry to make decision-making more effective. This is an essential complement to a European army to ensure a feminist foreign policy and open diplomatic channels. In this way, we can bring our interests to the international stage. This will make the EU an important force in multilateral organizations and lead a reformed UN. The EU must take global democracy seriously and speak up for the rights of minorities and the fight for climate justice. We want to use diplomacy and economic resources as instruments to promote peace, security and stability worldwide.
Volt Europe	4Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 INTRODUCTION
The EU must stand up for those in need of protection and shape a future in which the community stands for positive change. It is our community and our environmental and economic goals that will enable the EU to meet the global challenges of the climate crisis and climate justice. By working consistently with the countries of the world, the EU must not only secure its future, but also pave the way for a stable, low-emission world in which global warming is limited to below 2 degrees by 2040.
The EU must become the global center for climate-positive projects, offering long-term, low-interest loans and incentivizing private capital to secure climate justice. The EU has a responsibility to help global communities transition to sustainable, low-emission pathways and strengthen its commitment to the Paris Agreement. We strive f o r sustainability, resilience and equity that benefits all.
Our Europe should actively promote the economies of non-European countries, eliminate the causes of displacement through sustainable development cooperation, create financial aid and education programs, dismantle networks of illegal migration and put the needs of victims first. Our Europe should ensure legal pathways for both refugees and migrants. We want to create pathways that are standardized in all member states. Inclusion, equal burden-sharing and the free movement of people must be guaranteed.
Our cooperation must be based on democratic values and aim to reduce poverty, conflicts, climate crisis and political instability.
One thing is clear: we must act quickly. The climate crisis, conflicts, overcrowded refugee camps and social resistance will not tolerate any further delay. Together, we can shape a future that offers solutions that are stronger.
We want positive change that not only prevents the worst, but enables the best: a strong, climate- neutral, innovative and fair Europe. Volt is already working across Europe on bold, concrete and constructive solutions. For a Europe in which we not only prevent the climate catastrophe, but also enable a better future: clean i n d u s t r i e s , an innovative economy, social peace and safe coexistence.
But we can only achieve this together.
Volt Europe	5Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 TABLE OF CONTENTS
European election program 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1. Europe's path to sustainable prosperity	7
2. Foreign policy and defense	20
QUALITY OF LIFE
3. Making Europe's society more inclusive	34
4. Good jobs and prosperity for all	49
HUMANE MIGRATION
5. Asylum seekers and refugees	59
6. Labor migration	75
SO THAT EVERY VOTE COUNTS
7. Strengthening the EU	83
8. European democracy	93
A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9. Prioritize climate neutrality	109
10. Healthy ecosystems	128
Volt Europe	6Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1. Europe's path to sustainable prosperity
Today, the EU is the world's largest economic area. This success story is the result of decades of economic integration. The EU's economic weight and global network have enabled significant social progress. This ranges from rising incomes and increased well-being to peace and stability.
We want to grow together economically and implement an urgent renewal of our economic structure. This is necessary to overcome the challenges we face today within Europe and around the world. The climate crisis, geopolitical dependencies, the digital transformation and the social divide that fuels extremist politics are major challenges that we need to solve quickly. We therefore want to promote innovation, ensure effective taxation and conserve resources.
cations for the promotion of sustainability and a fair society within and between States fairly.
As a progressive movement, we do not want to play economic growth, justice and sustainability off against each other. Instead, we promote a vision in which government action simultaneously protects, provides opportunity and drives economic progress. As we strive for long-term prosperity, our way of measuring growth must respect both natural limits and the goal of a just and resilient society.
Research and innovation are key components in the promotion of European, new and established industries. At the same time, they make it possible to counteract global societal challenges such as the climate crisis, digitalization and global health risks. We must create framework conditions for innovative technologies such as carbon capture and storage (CCS) and artificial intelligence to enable consumers and companies of all sizes to use them. At the same time, our natural and social limits must be respected (e.g. in terms of data protection or energy consumption, see also the chapter "Good jobs and prosperity for all").
Our vision differs fundamentally from the current economic and political climate.
spirit and lays the foundations for the development of Europe's sustainable prosperity. By putting itself at the forefront of this development, Europe will continue to help accelerate these developments worldwide and thus strengthen democratic institutions worldwide.
Volt Europe	7Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1.1 Rethinking the economy
• Introduction of new and progressive economic indicators and targets to be used for the evaluation of public investments. These indicators and targets take into account the value of natural resources and set incentives against their exploitation.
• Inclusion of quality of life and well-being, such as employment, mental and physical health, leisure time and recreation in the measurement of gross national product.
• 
Intensify the efforts of European institutions to coordinate the collection and use of economic data. This should help to create sustainable economic indicators.
• Inclusion of sustainability and quality of life measurements in political decisions. This applies to the application of European budgetary rules, EU budget negotiations and the European Semester process.
Volt Europe	8Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1.2 Investing in the industry of the future
• Tripling the budget for "Horizon Europe". This is intended to make the funding of research and innovation programs more effective. The main aim is to support projects that tackle the climate crisis, contribute to achieving the UN's sustainable development goals and increase the EU's competitiveness and growth. Strengthening European research must be a central component of European public investment that benefits all Member States.
• As part of such an investment initiative, we propose
> Increase investment in public goods and services. Health, education, cybersecurity, human-centered artificial intelligence, micro-technology and networks have been neglected for too long. However, these must be available to all EU citizens and promoted through projects with a clear focus on sustainability and green growth.
> Increase funding to support programmes to digitize our public processes and functions (see the chapter "Making Europe's society more inclusive").
> Developing research in critical and underdeveloped areas of sustainability (see the chapters "Prioritizing climate neutrality" and "Climate neutrality"). "Healthy ecosystems").
> 
Creating the basis for a European arms industry to support the development of effective European armed forces (see the chapter on "Foreign policy and defense").
> Building innovative and competitive industrial clusters instead of a geographically concentrated industrial core. With a focused geographic strategy, we make it possible to drive forward profitable European infrastructure projects without the veto rights of individual member states.
> Establishment of a comprehensive European venture capital program. The aim is to provide private and public venture capital and to promote innovative European products and services.
services to the global market. This should be managed by the European Investment Fund.
> Tripling the entire EU budget to €3 trillion over seven years. Our projects must be financially supported. This is to be financed by borrowing and EU taxes (see the chapter "Strengthening the EU").
> Promoting the (further) education of European citizens (see the chapter "Making Europe's society more inclusive").
Volt Europe	9Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1.3 Green economy
• Introduction of nationwide CO2 pricing covering all economic sectors. The revenue should flow into green investments (see chapter
"Prioritize climate neutrality").
• Introduction of standardized rules to prohibit planned product wear and tear, promote circular economy and reduce waste of resources.
• 
Expansion of semiconductor production in the EU. The EU is to set itself the target of manufacturing 20% of semiconductors in the EU by 2030. This includes electrolytes, inverters, batteries and critical components for solar panels and wind turbines.
• Ensure that raw materials are available. To this end, we want to expand the law on critical raw materials. This should include mandatory licenses for the export of critical resources.
Volt Europe	10Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1.4 Shaping digital transformation responsibly
• Continuous research into technologies and the impact of current legislation. This should result in new laws that facilitate the development of digital technologies. The focus should be on preserving European values and creating future industries.
• Ensure the security and protection of users of digital technologies. For example, the security situation of the critical infrastructure should be communicated to the public on an annual basis.
• Promotion of barrier-free and accessible open source technologies. We want to increase access to open source software for EU institutions and industries and ensure that everyone in Europe has access to new technologies. Supportive legislation must be created here.
• Promoting sustainable and durable technologies. For example, we want to Strengthen the "right to repair" so that everyone who can repair their product themselves has access to affordable spare parts and repair information. Similarly, manufacturers should be required to publish the environmental footprint of products in their specifications (including the manufacturer's supply chain).
• 
Ensure that current and new technologies do not violate fundamental rights and freedoms. For example, we want to introduce mandatory reviews of AI systems to ensure that they do not violate privacy or create discriminatory effects.
• Supporting entrepreneurs in adapting to the EU regulatory framework. In doing so, we want to regulato
sandboxes" and provide funds for technological support in existing and future EU funding programs.
• Fair taxation of digital technologies. Taxation should take place where the turnover of the digital product is generated.
• Strengthening the EU framework conditions for the design of technologies. Suppliers operating in Europe should be put in a position to future-proof their emerging technologies.
shape the future. Securing the future is particularly important in the current global Industrial Revolution 4.0 and enables the EU to contribute its values to the international dialog.
Volt Europe	11Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1.5 Permanent European investment programs
• Permanent inclusion of the recovery and resilience program in EU budget negotiations. This is the largest EU program to promote economic development as well as social and environmental goals. We are committed to ensuring that this program strengthens the EU's strategic autonomy. In this way, we want to strengthen our economic supply chains and create incentives for critical goods to be produced and stored in the EU (re-shoring).
• Strengthening programs such as "Invest EU". These offer support for small and medium-sized enterprises. This applies in particular to companies with innovative business models or companies that provide critical goods. The investment rules of such programmes should strengthen regions that are affected by brain drain in order to counteract the geographical centralization of the European economy.
• Reforming the rules for the import of goods and services. We want to prevent European taxpayers from paying for the import of goods from outside the European Economic Area. This applies when these are of strategic importance for the
economic autonomy of the EU and would therefore have to be offered in the EU itself. Imports of strategic goods lead to dependencies that counteract our desired goal of increased strategic autonomy.
• Introduction of a "Small Business Act for Europe". This reserves 25% of public contracts at EU and national level for small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, legislation and requirements at both levels should not harm such companies. We want to simplify the public procurement process and reporting requirements for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
Volt Europe	12Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1.6 Stronger integration of the European single market
• Promoting the integration of the European market. This applies in particular to the financial markets. A truly integrated financial market should enable entrepreneurs in Eastern Europe, for example, to have the same financial opportunities as those in Western Europe.
• Completion of the banking and capital market union. To this end, we want to introduce a Europe-wide deposit guarantee for bank deposits and European government bonds in order to offer banks effective investments and adequate protection. This will support the completion of European banking regulation.
• Development of safe assets. These are covered by government bonds issued by the EU, the repayment of which is secured by European debt and taxes.
• Increasing the accessibility of capital markets for consumers and companies. This affects both debt and equity capital and our small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, it will be easier to raise capital via alternative financial instruments such as crowdfunding and peer-to-peer loans.
• 
Strengthening corporate governance standards through tax incentives. In this way, we want to reduce the risk of mismanagement, fraud and excessive speculation. To this end, we want to increase the required equity capital for European banks in order to avoid taxpayers having to pay for expensive bank bailouts.
Volt Europe	13Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1.7 Trade, sustainability and human rights
• Introduction of mandatory human rights and environmental sustainability criteria. All EU trade agreements must be reviewed in this regard and ongoing negotiations must be interrupted in the event of repeated violations.
• Introduction of mandatory measures for monitoring and identifying products. This is intended to prevent products from forced labor from entering the market.
• 
Consideration of economic realities in third countries so that both parties benefit from EU trade agreements.
Volt Europe	14Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1.8 Critical infrastructure protection
• Expansion of the definition of critical infrastructure. This should also include European transport systems, infrastructure for waste disposal and water supply, the healthcare system and public health services, energy supply networks, ports, airports, nuclear power plants, digital communication networks, data centers, network cables, farmland and chemical plants.
• Bringing forward investment in critical pan- European infrastructure projects. This includes a renewed commitment to Trans- European Transport Networks (TEN-T). To this end, we want to double the EU funding instrument "Connecting Europe".
• 
Introduction of the right for the EU to prevent foreign direct investment (FDI) in critical infrastructure. This should happen if it comes to the conclusion that an investment poses a security risk to the European economy. This ensures that the EU retains its necessary autonomy. The same
a p p l i e s t o the use of foreign parts.
• Introduction of the right for the EU to acquire critical infrastructure directly. This should apply to objects that are to be sold to foreign buyers if such a sale is deemed a security risk.
Volt Europe	15Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1.9 Payment transactions and financial services - more secure and competitive
• Introduction of measures that offer EU citizens and companies secure and affordable options for payments and digital financial services. The aim is to prevent a few companies that charge high transaction fees from dominating the market.
• Combining competition and good offers for customers. Competition in the market for financial services and the introduction of useful features such as inexpensive card payments or instant bank transfers must be reconciled.
• Initiation of competition proceedings in cases where the market for payment services is dominated by a small number of companies.
• Review of the establishment of a European public company for payment processing. This applies in the event that it should be determined that large American payment processors exploit their dominant market position to charge excessive fees.
• 
Introduction of a digital euro as a useful means of payment without having to rely on a bank account. This should also create competitive pressure on the market for deposits and payments. There should be no upper limits on the amount of digital euros held by private individuals and salary payments should be able to be made in these.
• Preservation of cash. Cash should be preserved and protected as the central legal tender in our economy. However, real estate transactions with cash should be limited throughout Europe in order to prevent money laundering.
Volt Europe	16Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
1.10 Combating tax evasion and avoidance
• Measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance. This is widespread in the EU due to tax competition between member states and often allows large international companies to avoid taxes, while small and medium-sized enterprises have to pay their fair share.
> Harmonization of corporate taxation.
This is to be achieved by using a common corporate tax base (CCCTB) in the EU. The profits of multinational corporations should be distributed among the member states using a precise formula.
> Introduction of an effective minimum corporation tax. This should amount to at least 22%. At the same time, mandatory national surcharge taxes should be levied on corporate profits from low-tax countries in order to effectively achieve at least 22%. In addition, optional national surcharge taxes up to the national tax rate should be made possible.
> Facilitating the automatic and mandatory exchange of information between all EU member states. This is to be achieved with the help of our proposed EU Ministry of Finance as the coordinating institution (see the "Strengthening the EU" section).
• Effective action against tax evasion and illegal money flows. We currently have no overview of where a large proportion of private and corporate assets are located in Europe or abroad.
is located at all. By i m p r o v i n g the exchange of information between national authorities, we can better understand wealth inequality, fight against tax evasion and stop the flow of illegal money from abroad into Europe.
> Introduction of a central asset register. The aim is to merge data from various sources,
e.g. from national tax and land registers. The EU Ministry of Finance should take responsibility for this project in order to close the current knowledge gaps on the distribution of wealth.
> Worldwide exchange of data with other such registers. Suitable mechanisms must be created for this. In particular, this should be carried out with regard to information on offshore tax havens.
European data protection standards must be guaranteed for such exchanges.
> Authorization of the EU Ministry of Finance to negotiate reciprocal exchanges. The Ministry needs the right to negotiate agreements for the reciprocal exchange of such data with the competent authorities in international financial centers.
> Enforcement of EU rules on the registration of beneficial owners. Member states must be obliged to keep national registers so that real estate investors can no longer hide behind anonymous front companies.
Volt Europe	17Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
How do we bring these proposals to the European Parliament?
The measures described in the chapter "Europe's path to sustainable prosperity" require both minor and major changes to the existing legal framework of the European Union.
Some would require additional changes to the treaties. These include, for example, the use of new indicators for the application of the European Union's budgetary rules, which would require an amendment to Articles 121 and 126 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Protocol 12 of the Treaty. Similarly, some measures to protect critical infrastructure require an amendment to the EU Treaties, as national security is the responsibility of the Member States. In addition, a deposit guarantee financed by the European Union and covered by European debt and taxes is likely to require a treaty amendment.
Other proposed measures require less far- reaching changes to existing legal or administrative instruments. For example the measures to promote green
economy, new legal instruments and amendments to existing or proposed secondary legislation by the Commission are required, including Regulation (EU) 2023/1781 (Chips Act), the Critical Raw Materials Act (not yet adopted) or the Net Zero Industry Act (not yet adopted). Similarly, the measures to complete the banking and capital markets union require the adoption of new secondary legislation in this area without amending the treaties. Furthermore, to facilitate the exchange of information between Member States, the introduction of new secondary legislation is required, possibly amending existing instruments such as Council Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. In addition, new investments require the agreement of the Member States to increase the EU budget within the framework of
of the multiannual financial framework. Finally, the proposal "Sustainable European Investment Programs" requires an amendment to Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement.
Volt Europe	18Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
What expenditure and income do these proposals generate?
The total cost of the measures in this chapter, including implementation costs and annual costs over five years, is €316,364,000,000. The implementation costs amount to € 308,646,500,000 and the annual costs amount to € 1,543,500,000.
Examples of implementation costs include the development of political and legal frameworks, capacity building and the training of (new) staff, the development of IT or physical infrastructure or public awareness campaigns.
Examples of annual costs include salaries and social benefits, administrative costs, infrastructure maintenance and the costs associated with implementing the proposed measures.
The total costs of the complete election program are listed separately from the total revenue.
Volt Europe	19Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
2.1 The EU must speak with one voice in the world
• Development of the European External Action Service (EEAS) into a Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the European Union (MAAEU). This reform is intended to make the EU's foreign policy apparatus more efficient, effective and globally influential. Due to its democratic mandate, the newly created Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the European Union is the sole representative for the jointly formulated foreign policy of the EU. The Ministry is to perform key tasks in the area of political (international cooperation, human rights, neighborhood and enlargement, humanitarian aid) and scientific diplomacy (climate and global health, development of an EU space strategy and civil exploration of Mars, the moon, etc.).
• Division of the role of the High Representation of the EU for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy into two separate positions. One is responsible for European foreign policy and the other for European defense. This division of tasks is intended to enable specialization and focused leadership in their respective areas of responsibility.
• Promotion of a common diplomatic culture. This is to take place at both national and ministerial level. The number of EU staff is to be increased in proportion to the number of seconded national staff.
At the same time, participation in the European Diplomatic Academy and its training programs will be mandatory for all EU diplomatic staff (both national and ministerial).
• Improvement of consular services. The ministry is to manage the bilateral representation and consular services for all EU member states in third countries without a national diplomatic presence in these member states.
• Establishment of an appropriate joint intelligence analysis unit. The EU Intelligence and Situation Center will be empowered to collect and process information gathered by Member States and ministerial delegations. The intelligence service will also establish its own intelligence gathering capabilities under effective parliamentary and judicial scrutiny to ensure respect for human rights. EU intelligence analysis will inform the decision-making processes of common EU foreign and security policy, including the identification of common security threats and priorities.
Volt Europe	21Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
2.2 A progressive foreign policy
• Promote a strong awareness of the colonial and imperialist legacies of member states in third countries in the European diplomatic corps. This should be reflected in EU diplomacy towards these third countries by creating a diverse and united diplomatic representation with a European voice.
• Highlighting different historical contexts in Europe. This should help to establish a structured dialog with third countries and be based o n equality and respect. The aim is to move away from past paternalistic and exploitative legacies and counteract resentment.
• 
Integration of a feminist foreign policy within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the European Union. Internally, this requires ensuring equal participation of women* and other disadvantaged groups in the EU diplomatic service, including in leadership positions. Externally, the EU will promote equal participation in negotiations and peace agreements with other international actors. EU delegations to international negotiations will be composed according to the principles of feminist foreign policy.
Volt Europe	22Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
2.3 The vision of a bigger, stronger and more inclusive Union
• Introduction of a new enlargement methodology based on gradual and phased integration into the EU. This replaces the current "all or nothing" approach with an efficient, transparent and fair process. As accession countries make progress in implementing reforms to align with EU law, they will gradually gain more access to EU resources such as the EU budget and participation in EU institutions. These stages can be reversed if the reforms take a step backwards. The then European government (formerly the Commission) will monitor this process. Candidate countries must be able to fully understand the process and the assessment of their progress and have the means to review decisions. The new system will accelerate candidate entry times through new incentives for reform, counteracting "enlargement fatigue" while improving the flexibility of the EU's "absorption capacity".
• Adaptation of EU enlargement to other non- European organizations. The new staged enlargement should be complemented by membership of other framework organizations such as the European Political Community (EPC) and the Council of Europe. Membership of such organizations should not be an alter- native to EU membership for future candidates, but should be differentiated in terms of different priorities and the
complement the scope of the commitment. The
EU enlargement should be based on a performance-based
open-door policy.
• Providing special support for nations confronted with foreign aggression. To this end, a
clearly prepared range of options will be developed. Countries aspiring to EU membership and under threat will be provided with appropriate instruments to protect their sovereignty, territorial integrity and societal resilience on their path to EU accession. In addition, the EU is to fulfill special long-term political, financial and military commitments to protect Ukraine and secure its path towards EU accession.
Financial resources that are confiscated as part of sanctions against Russia are to be used for such aid, accession reforms and reconstruction.
• Reform of the EU in preparation for enlargement. In particular, decision-making procedures that currently require unanimity in the Council must be replaced by qualified majority voting (QMV) in order to avoid blockades caused by the individual veto of member states. In addition, the EU budget must be reformed in order to meet the financial needs of an enlarged EU (see chapter "Reforming the EU").
Volt Europe	23Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
2.4 A smaller global North-South divide in the economy
• Establishment of a "European Development Aid Agency" to pool national development aid efforts. According to the OECD figures for 2022, the 27 member states and institutions of the European Union together contribute 115 billion US dollars to development aid, twice as much as the sum of American aid. In order to increase effectiveness and visibility, Volt proposes that funding and mechanisms for official development assistance be pooled at European level within the framework of a "European Development Agency". Specific financial, personnel and institutional regulations should be created for this purpose. This transfer would provide the EU with unique opportunities to contribute to the implementation of sustainable development goals and to strengthen its capabilities in the area of foreign policy. strengthen "soft power".
• Development and promotion of a "Strasbourg Consensus" on development aid. This is linked to the further development of similar models from the USA and China. In the "Washington Consensus", the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) linked loans to the opening of national economies, with sometimes catastrophic effects. For their part, China and its allies have developed a "Beijing Consensus". This promises to finance infrastructure. However, little consideration is given to the countries' indebtedness, principles of governance and human rights.
The EU can develop and promote an independent consensus that reshapes international cooperation in the field of development aid. It should be based on the following principles:
> Reorganization of the debt of the least developed countries within the framework of the Paris Club (60 countries are affected by over- indebtedness).
> Introduction of a new clause in loan agreements for developing countries that automatically suspends repayments in the event of a severe natural disaster.
> Revision of the regulations of international institutions. The recruitment of World Bank and IMF executives should be based on their skills. Representatives of civil society and NGOs should be involved in the committees of these institutions.
> Credit conditions that are linked to the fight against corruption, respect for the rights of minorities and guidelines for the promotion and protection of women*.
Volt Europe	24Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
2.5 Autonomous competence for military and civil defense
• Development of the EDA (European Defence Agency) and the defense-industrial elements of the European Commission (e.g. DG DEFIS) into a European Ministry of Defense (EUMD). This is intended to create a centralized institution for European defence matters. This includes strategies, operations, research, procurement of the technical and industrial base.
• Establishment of a European Military Headquarters (EMHQ), which is responsible for developing strategies and making decisions on operations.
of the EU military units. This EMHQ reports to the EUMD and should be supported by a European Military Academy (EMA), which trains and educates a new generation of military personnel with a common military culture and creates a common military culture.
• Strengthening regional specialization in certain areas (e.g. air, land, sea) and capabilities (e.g. cyber, amphibious, airborne operations). In the short term, this will promote the joint development o f defense capabilities and increase the cost efficiency and interaction of national EU forces. At the same time, best practices in the regional integration of national units will be promoted and standardized at the operational level. Examples include Franco- German and German-Dutch units. This is intended to
contribute to the development of a common military culture and operational effectiveness.
• Development of joint EU defense capabilities. In the medium term, the aim is to ensure that the Rapid Deployment Capacity (RDC) is operational by 2025. This should be further expanded, provided with EU personnel and standardized equipment and given extended mission objectives. In addition, the EU should establish a standing European Intervention Force (ERF) with a personnel strength of 60,000 soldiers. It will be equipped with a wide range of land, air, sea and space resources. Its main purpose is to be the first response force to threats to the territorial integrity of the EU and to complement national armed forces. This capability is the EU's first priority. It can also be made available to NATO. The EMA will train the personnel of the RDC and ERF.
• Establishment of transnational military units under EU leadership. To this end, an agreement accessible to all EU members will be created, which will form a steering body with the necessary powers. This body can set up integrated
Establish EU military units where decisions are taken by qualified majority and in coordination with NATO. Such units will be placed under the authority of the reformed European government (see Chapter 7).
Volt Europe	25Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
This represents a rapid first step towards the long-term EU-wide integration of the armed forces. At the same time, the development of an autonomous EU defense capability is urgently needed, at least to the extent that the member states are prepared to do so.
• Expansion of the "European Solidarity Corps" into a single voluntary EU civil and military service program. This is funded by the EU and complements existing national military and/or civilian services.
• Promotion of grassroots initiatives and associations for digital and civil resilience. These work to strengthen and fund digital and civil resilience against hybrid threats. These initiatives are intended to counteract activities such as election influence campaigns carried out by "troll factories" from third countries.
• Establishment of a European civil and military department for disaster relief operations. This is to expand the scope and powers of RescEU along the lines of the Spanish Unidad Militar de Emergencias and the German Technisches Hilfswerk. This department will intervene in all types of disasters and catastrophes. We need to create more competencies in our society to adapt to the climate crisis and future conflicts. A European military division with civil society institutions in
of the entire Union would make it possible, "brand value" for the European armed forces and to differentiate the EU from other geopolitical players by focusing on positive and defense-oriented action.
Volt Europe	26Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
2.6 More strategic autonomy for the EU defense industry
• Authorization of the EU Ministry of Defence t o identify military requirements and to ensure research, development and provision of these capabilities through tenders.
This will equip the European armed forces with state-of-the-art military capabilities. As long as this main objective is achieved, procurement should promote development in economically underdeveloped regions of the EU.
• Strengthening the EU's position as a global innovator in the defense sector. The EU should become a driving force for the development of emerging and ground- breaking strategic defense technologies. Existing efforts such as the EU Defense Innovation Scheme (EUDIS) and the Hub for EU Defense Innovation (HEDI) should be safeguarded and their mandates and funding increased. This initiative should focus on capability areas where the EU can achieve global competitiveness, such as the development of cyber-,
AI, carbon neutrality (e.g. green hydrogen), quantum computing and space defense technologies.
• Consolidation of the European Defense Fund (EDF). The aim is to bring together existing separate EU funding instruments in connection with joint defense initiatives, including research, development and procurement. The EDF will become a permanent part of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) in the next budget cycle
and will comprise at least 6% of the EU budget. In addition, a new target will be established that requires at least 60% of all defense spending by member states to be made available for joint projects.
• Integration of the EU defense industry into the internal market. National industrial protectionism is to be dismantled in order to create significant economies of scale. This will be replaced by the creation of EU regional defense industry hubs (industry, education, etc.) around leading countries. SMEs and companies in neighboring Member States should be involved in this.
• Develop precise common rules on arms exports and ensure strict and consistent enforcement for EU defense companies operating outside the EU.
Volt Europe	27Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
2.7 Europe as a strong pillar for NATO and the democratic states
• Establishment of an EU-NATO Strategy Coordination Group. By this we mean a political steering body that
structured, long-term cooperation between the two associations. The committee will develop a joint strategic document defining common priorities, threat perceptions, capacity requirements, availability of forces and areas of specialization (such as territorial defense vs. hybrid resilience). It should also delineate regional and thematic roles, particularly with regard to the distribution of roles in Europe and the Indo-Pacific. At the same time, emerging and groundbreaking technologies that could be decisive for defense should be included.
• Continuation of the task force on the resilience of critical infrastructures. Here, concrete measures are to be taken to ensure the effectiveness and resilience of critical infrastructures in the Euro-Atlantic military supply chain network. This includes undersea communication cables and infrastructures that are crucial for energy supply and military mobility. EU and NATO candidate countries should also be included.
• Increase interdependence to minimize the risk of transatlantic political tensions. This should
be promoted through joint integration in non-military initiatives. This would relate in particular to market integration, setting regulatory standards and minimizing strategic dependencies in relation to emerging technologies (AI, quantum computing), critical value chains for rare earth minerals and semiconductors. We want to illustrate such efforts using the example of the
EU-US Trade and Technology Council (TTC) and the sustainable Club for Steel and Aluminium (GSA). These efforts should help to create a transatlantic "Brussels effect".
• Develop a broader strategy for deeper cooperation with other countries that share political norms, values and interests with the EU and NATO. This includes candidate countries of both organizations, key non- NATO allies and regional organizations. This voluntary cooperation should include efforts to increase mutual deterrence, societal resilience and political cooperation in order to strengthen the unity of democracies.
• The Summit for Democracy should be institutionalized as a forum for coordination. This forum should pursue clear membership criteria and an open- door policy.
Volt Europe	28Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
2.8 Ensuring comprehensive strategic deterrence
• Promote the global ban on nuclear weapons and support the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW) as a long-term strategy for the global disarmament of nuclear weapons. This is subject to the condition that it is compatible with the fundamental need for a credible strategic deterrent in the event of persistent threats.
• Reduce the global stockpile of nuclear weapons, both in terms of operational warheads and those decommissioned or in storage. This would alleviate the problem of verifiability, reduce the risk of human error in the event of a (large-scale) nuclear attack and improve the effectiveness of monitoring, while at the same time reducing the risk of circumvention.
• Transfer of control of the French nuclear deterrent potential to the European government. This is to take place following the adoption of a European constitution and the establishment of fully democratic and accountable federal institutions. Over time, the personnel, systems and procedures will be fully integrated into European structures.
• Development of a strategic defense system capable of effectively countering airborne threats to the
EU territory. This includes the ability to respond to limited (ballistic) nuclear attacks.
• Establishment of a conventional strike force. This should offer a broader range of options along the escalation ladder and minimize dependence on nuclear deterrence wherever possible.
• Pursuing a holistic approach to governance. The aim is to ensure the EU's resilience in times of peace, conflict and war as well as in the "gray zone" in between. Current EU policy is mainly focused on promoting resilience as a framework to combat different threats. Although this framework is effective, the EU needs to develop specific policies and measures to implement this framework effectively.
• Integration of existing instruments (Cyber Diplomacy Toolbox, EU Hybrid Threats Framework) to create a doctrine for different types of threats. This doctrine will build on the Council of Europe's "Helsinki Approach" to establish a uniform classification for different types of threats. The first implementation of this framework will be cyber resilience under the Cyber Solidarity Act.
Volt Europe	29Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
• Strengthening the EU Intelligence Analysis Centre (EUINTCEN) to manage and implement defense. At the same time, a legal framework for the exchange of intelligence information between Member States will be created. The EUINTCEN will thus facilitate rapid and effective countermeasures and develop recommendations to improve joint civil- military planning for various scenarios. The first phase of capability development will focus on cyber resilience in the context of the
"Cyber Solidarity Act". The development of the capability will also aim to facilitate the processes of further development in the public-private sector in critical infrastructures.
• Definition of a threshold for threats where the mutual defense clause (Art. 42(7) TEU) can be invoked. At the same time, appropriate means of defense are to be proposed and defined. In addition, the relevant bodies
clarify the division of labor in allocating and combating hybrid threats between the Integrated Political Crisis Res- ponse (IPCR) arrangements, the Hybrid Fusion Cell within the EUINTCEN and the EUMFA (DG DEFIS,
EEAS during the transition phase).
Volt Europe	30Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
2.9 Advocating for a reformed multilateral system
• Adoption of a comprehensive pan- demic agreement to implement a robust framework for pandemic prevention, preparedness and response. This also includes a mandate for comprehensive information gathering. Particular attention will be paid to bridging the capacity gap in the healthcare system in developing countries.
• Restructuring of the global financial system to promote inclusivity and fairness in the global financial system. This applies in particular to the effective
Tackling climate finance for developing countries. Initiatives such as the Paris Summit for a new global financial pact will be an integral part of this. The ratification of a global minimum tax rate for companies will be accelerated.
• Introduction of new own resources for the UN, creation of financial mechanisms such as a Global Resources Dividend (GRD) or a Tobin tax. In this way, we want to finance transitions in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and distribute the financial burden of the United Nations more fairly.
• Convocation of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly (UNPA). This is intended to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the UN and set a precedent for the
representative democracy at UN level, which could be further expanded in terms of its mandate and scope in the future. This includes abolishing vetoes by permanent members of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). The UNPA should introduce a representative electoral system that takes into account the population size of the member states.
• Reform of the UN Security Council (UNSC). In the short term, we want to add more permanent members to the UNSC and convert the French permanent UNSC seat into an EU seat. In the long term, we want to abolish the permanent seats and introduce regular elections for UNSC seats by the General Assembly (later the UNPA). These elections would draw from a pool of candidates from regional groups. The UNSC should increase the total number of seats to better reflect regional, economic and population diversity. This includes the allocation of seats to regional organizations. In addition, the majority voting principle should replace unanimity on matters related to genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes. This includes decisions that legitimize military interventions.
Volt Europe	31Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
How do we bring these proposals to the European Parliament?
The Union's Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) is based, among other things, on Articles 21-46 of the EU Treaty and Articles 205-222 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). In the area of CFSP, the EU currently has special legislative competences, which include specific institutional features such as the limited participation of the European Parliament in the decision-making process. The CFSP is currently defined and implemented by the European Council and the Council of the European Union.
In order to implement the measures of the Act, it is legally necessary to amend treaties. These changes include the establishment of common legislative competences to enable the Union to introduce common standards through legislation. Policy measures, such as "One voice for the EU in the world", require a comprehensive review of the existing legal framework. This includes restructuring the European External Action Service (EEAS) into a European Union Ministry for Foreign Affairs (EUMFA) and splitting the role of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (HR) into two positions, namely an EU Minister for Foreign Affairs and an EU Minister for Defense. To implement this policy, we propose amendments to the Treaties
before. We want to amend Title III of the EU Treaty "Provisions relating to the institutions",
Title V of the EU Treaty "General provisions on the Union's external action and specific provisions on the common foreign and security policy", Title V of the
TFEU on "International Agreements" and the Declaration on the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
In addition, subsequent legislation is required to create and further define ministerial
o f f i c e s .	Volt s e e k s to strengthen the EU's strategic autonomy in the defense industry by enhancing the EU's position as a global defense innovator. To consolidate and improve entities such as the EU Defense Innovation Scheme (EUDIS) and the Hub for EU Defense Innovation (HEDI), there is a need for amendments and updates to existing secondary legislation, such as EU Regulation 2021/697 on the European Defense Fund.
They also require
political efforts to strengthen and renew the role of the Union in the global context, the advocacy of principles
such as feminist foreign policy within the existing framework of NATO and the United Nations as well as in new bilateral and multilateral agreements.
Volt Europe	32Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
A STRONGER EU: THE GEOPOLITICAL IMPORTANCE OF EUROPE
What expenditure and income do these proposals generate?
The total costs of the measures proposed in this chapter, consisting of the implementation costs and the annual costs over five years, amount to €447,460,000,000.
The implementation costs amount to
€49,626,000,000 and the annual costs are
€199,330,000,000.
Examples of implementation costs include the development of political and legal frameworks, capacity building and the training of (new) staff, the development of IT or physical infrastructure or public awareness campaigns.
Examples of annual costs include salaries and social benefits, administrative costs, infrastructure maintenance and the costs associated with implementing the proposed measures.
The total costs of the complete election program are listed separately from the total revenue.
Volt Europe	33Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.1 Strengthening inclusion
- combating discrimination
• Ensuring equal access to employment opportunities without discrimination while at the same time sanctioning companies that do not adhere to inclusive employment practices.
• Introduction of an EU anti-discrimination law that extends existing protection in the area of employment to other areas such as social security, education and the provision of goods and services, including housing.
• Promote the ratification of the Istanbul Convention by the remaining member states and its full implementation by the EU and all member states.
• Strengthening sanctions against hate crimes, including hate speech and digital violence by expanding the definitions of such offenses.
• Provide free access to menstrual hygiene products for all.
• Commitment to the prohibition of conversion therapies, against the pathologization of trans* identities, for the legal recognition of the gender of trans* persons in a simple administrative procedure and gender-affirming health care for the LGBTQIA+ community.
• Ensure that the fundamental rights of people in the LGBTQIA+ community and the relevant rulings of the European Court of Justice (ECJ) and the European Court of Justice (ECJ) are respected.
Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) (e.g. on the recognition of same-sex partnerships and marriages, on the legal recognition of the gender of trans* people and on freedom of expression) must be respected in practice throughout the EU. It must be ensured that parents in rainbow families
be recognized as such throughout the EU (e.g. when moving to another Member State).
• Create EU funding programmes that can be used directly by civil society, social or political organizations. These should promote constructive dialog initiatives on LGBTQIA+ rights.
• Commitment to combating anti-Semitism. This includes educating all citizens about Jewish culture and history, including historical persecution and the responsibility arising from the Shoah. In addition, an EU strategy to combat anti-Semitism should be developed in cooperation with Jewish communities to defend Jews and Jewish institutions in Europe and worldwide so that they can feel safe. The promotion of respectful exchange and cooperation is an integral part of an inclusive society.
Volt Europe	35Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.2 Rights of people with disabilities
• Forcing the remaining Member States to ratify the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) and creating a European Agency for Persons with Disabilities to ensure the harmonized implementation of these rights.
• Abolish discriminatory protective regimes such as guardianship that deny legal capacity to persons with disabilities by supporting the implementation of new Supported Decision-Making (SDM) models.
• Immediately end any use of European funds to finance the construction of new closed facilities for people with disabilities within the EU and in third countries.
• 
Urge Member States to develop clear roadmaps to abolish the institutional model and provide personal assistance services necessary for people with disabilities to actively participate in society.
• Integration of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) as a binding standard in the EU's legal framework. The general comments of the CRPD are to be recognized as authoritative guidelines for interpretation. This should be done in accordance with the decision of June 18, 2020 on the EU's post-2020 strategy for people with disabilities and enable direct consultation by European citizens with disabilities.
Volt Europe	36Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.3 Lifelong learning for social mobility and income security
• Promote access to free, high-quality daycare and preschool programs for every child from an early age.
• Support the development of an inclusive and high-quality education system that is free of charge and offers every child the opportunity to develop their potential. This can be done through additional pedagogical support for teachers and additional social support for children with different types of disabilities.
• Preparing young people for modern life and the labor market by offering interdisciplinary curricula that focus on key skills. These include English language skills, STEM+K subjects supported by digital resources, civic education and participatory skills such as inclusivity, sustainability, gender equality, mental health, media literacy and critical thinking (see also the chapter "Good jobs and prosperity for all").
• 
Recruit qualified teachers and integrate them into the system. Working conditions should be improved through a reform of teacher training and salary structures that reflect the important role of teachers. Continuous psychological support should be offered and teachers should be involved in shaping education policy.
• Ensure that our higher education system is based on low or no tuition fees and provides sufficient financial support for every student who needs it.
• Development of comprehensive (new) training courses. It must be possible for everyone to engage in lifelong learning and change careers more easily.
• Promote the development and expansion of the accredited European school system into a comprehensive offer, including vocational education. This should ensure free access to multilingual, flexible, high-quality, inclusive and internationally competitive education for every child in Europe.
Volt Europe	37Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.4 Strengthening the European healthcare system
• Harmonization of prevention programs and health systems through the European Health Union.
• Implement EU-wide solutions for capacities, costs and reimbursements to ensure that all European residents have access to first-class public healthcare.
• Launch a recruitment drive to ensure that a sufficient number of healthcare professionals are available in all areas of healthcare and community care.
• 
Greater alignment of the digital systems already integrated into healthcare systems with people's needs (see the chapter "Europe's path to sustainable prosperity").
• Recognition of oral health as a human right and public health priority. Comprehensive political strategies for oral health at EU and national level are to be developed and implemented.
Volt Europe	38Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.5 Family planning and inclusive reproductive health and rights
• Legal certainty and practical implementation of abortion in all EU countries by removing all unnecessary burdens and obstacles to access to and provision of abortion.
• Making all forms of contraception available to all people, regardless of their age. This is either free of charge or covered by health insurance.
• Ensure that measures to prevent sexually transmitted infections (STIs), such as HIV- PrEP and anonymous testing, are available, accessible and free of charge for all people.
• 
Prohibition of forced sterilization and forced contraception.
• Propose an inclusive, standardized, Europe- wide sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) curriculum that reflects the diversity of sexual and romantic orientations and gender identities and complies with UNESCO guidelines.
• Inclusion of SRHR in the EU treaties. The right to abortion should also be included in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
Volt Europe	39Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.6 Decriminalization and regulation of sex work
• Decriminalization of sex work. Regulation must take into account the needs of sex workers and ensure the existence of safe places of work.
• Insurance cover, health care and other standard protective measures for sex workers.
• 
Combating violence and human trafficking and ensuring that sex workers have access to legal protection and remedies.
Volt Europe	40Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.7 Social solidarity and community
• Establishment of a highly qualified school health system to recognize symptoms of mental stress at an early stage.
• Provide child protection services with mental health professionals to bridge the gap between child protection and mental health services.
• Combating the stigma of mental illness by educating children and adults about psychiatric conditions and discrimination.
• 
Improve digital mental wellbeing through EU-wide legislation that protects workers' right to disconnect outside working hours and enables children to be sensitized to the healthy use of digital technology.
• Promote healthy ageing and develop community participation by introducing a network of volunteer community helpers.
• Support the development of a European network of community mental health services based on WHO guidelines.
Volt Europe	41Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.8 Coping with psychosocial risks
• Encourage employers, school boards and educational institutions to invest in reducing psychosocial risks such as stress, violence and harassment by integrating them into their management protocols.
• Offering services to reduce harm. At the same time, addicted people should be decriminalized and those who are suffering should be supported.
• 
Optimization of care and healing for young people in problem situations. To this end, low-threshold services are to be introduced where young people can meet with professionals and peers.
Volt Europe	42Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.9 Affordable and barrier-free housing and vibrant cities
• Support and finance innovative housing models such as co-housing, rent-to-own and lifetime rental programs to reduce the concentration of real estate assets and lower financial barriers to homeownership.
• Adopt and enforce WHO guidelines on exposure to air pollution and the availability of green spaces in residential areas.
• Use European funds to develop green infrastructure, improve public spaces and realize the "15-minute city" to make basic needs and services accessible by public transport in all communities.
• Enabling the EU to provide direct funding for cities to support them regardless of possible sanctions against their country. A best- practice shaping system for cities is to be set up. Among other things, it will discuss how
> funding for the creation of liveable cities and communities can be made accessible to all and vibrant social meeting places, green spaces and leisure activities can be provided.
> 
promoting active transportation such as walking and cycling and ensuring safe infrastructure can be implemented to reduce traffic accidents.
• Encouraging denser urban planning and efficient land use to reduce urban sprawl. The aim is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, improve health and minimize illness, hospital stays and deaths.
• Creating affordable and accessible local transportation for all Europeans by creating comprehensive and reliable urban and suburban rail networks.
• Application of spatial planning practices to minimize crime and maximize security. This includes the
Establishment of "community safety scenes", which are distributed in public spaces and staffed by trained personnel. The aim is to offer help and support to those who are exposed to harassment or feel at risk.
Volt Europe	43Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.10 Improving rail transportation
• Creation of a European Transport Agency (ETA) with advisory legislative competence and financial resources to transfer responsibility to the European level. The ETA will monitor investments in cross-border rail infrastructure and high-speed networks throughout Europe and close existing gaps in rail connections.
• Establishment of a standardized platform for rail tickets on which every rail user can enter two stations in Europe, retrieve a route and book a ticket. The platform should also inform users in real time about delays, costs, cancellations and passenger rights and have an open access API, follow MERITS (Multiple East-West Railways Integ- rated Timetable Storage) of the International Union of Railways (UIC) and cover all (inter)national and cross-border trains.
• 
Establish a comprehensive high-speed rail network connecting all EU cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants. This should include high-speed and night trains and contribute to increased individual freedom and comfort, climate resilience, public health and economic prosperity.manding the ETA to drive innovation and sustainability in the aviation and shipping industries.
Volt Europe	44Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.11 Protection of digital rights
• Further develop the European Declaration on Digital Rights and Principles for the Digital Decade into a binding legal instrument to ensure that the Declaration is complied with at every step of the legislative process.
• Require a mandatory opinion of the European Parliament's LIBE Committee (Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs) for any regulatory proposal on digital matters to ensure that fundamental rights and freedoms are taken into account in the text.
• 
Provide dedicated resources for legal representation to ensure that people living in the EU can bring violations of the law to court.
• Provision of dedicated funding for awareness campaigns. This should make it possible to understand how newly enacted EU legislation affects fundamental rights and freedoms.
• Cooperation with existing supervisory bodies in the Member States and civil society to ensure that legal requirements are complied with.
Volt Europe	45Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
3.12 Digital administration
• Promote the exchange of administrative best practices and common support services between EU countries to ensure that governments design processes from scratch when they digitize them. This will ensure that their objectives are achieved efficiently and that citizens can easily understand and follow them, with clear timelines and outcomes.
• Transition to paperless processes both in the EU institutions and in the member states where appropriate. Harmonized information and communication technologies (ICT) standards should be applied and services that are easily accessible on different devices should be provided.
• Introduction of the "EU Digital Identity Wallet". This should be able to digitally store an EU ID card, national ID card and other public certificates from all member states, ensuring user control, decentralized data storage and robust data protection.
• 
Establishment of transnational inno vation teams, creation of a centralized "EU initiative for IT traineeships" and the introduction of EU-funded qualification certificates. The aim is to strengthen
intergovernmental cooperation in the EU and increase the digital skills of employees in the public sector.
• Ensuring the offline availability of digital services, e.g. by guiding citizens through digital processes with the help of trained staff.
Volt Europe	46Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
How do we bring these proposals to the European Parliament?
Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union (TEU) enshrines the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and equality. All European laws should be based on these principles and promote their implementation in the lives of all EU citizens and people living in the European Union.
The chapter "Making Europe's society more inclusive" deals with topics such as health, inclusion, education, digitalization and social equality. The European Union cannot legally regulate many of these areas, as the legislative powers lie with the member states. In order to implement the positive changes called for in this chapter, Volt proposes an amendment to the Treaty to divide responsibilities for public and human health and education. This would allow the European Union to introduce common standards. In order to achieve these ambitious goals, new European laws are required, which Volt will introduce in the European Parliament. These should create clear regulations and transparency. Combining and updating existing anti-discrimination directives and working on an "EU anti-discrimination law" that includes the rights of people from the LGBTQIA+ community and protects the rights of all people in the European Union.
Union are necessary steps to promote equality. People with disabilities need adequate legal protection, including by proposing a directive to remove barriers to inclusion that implements a Europe-wide plan to ensure independent living for people with a mental illness or developmental disability. Volt will work to introduce a law that regulates sex work in all member states, decriminalizes workers and provides them with adequate protection. To reflect changes such as digitalization and working from home, Directive 2019/1152 on transparent working conditions needs to be amended.
Adapting to a digitized world will be achieved by working on a new European eGovernment Action Plan that includes guidelines and measures to redesign government processes, transition to paperless processes, adapt harmonized ICT standards and multi-device friendly services. In addition, Volt is committed to ensuring that the development of the Interoperable Europe Act (2022/0379 (COD)) takes an inclusive approach to stakeholder participation and advocates that the final regulation represents our principles, digital rights, open data and Free Libre Open Source Software (FLOSS).
Volt Europe	47Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
What expenditure and income do these proposals generate?
The total costs of this law, consisting of the implementation costs and the annual costs over five years, amount to € 2,864,062,000,000. The implementation costs amount to € 1,295,637,500,000 and the annual costs amount to € 313,684,900,000.
Examples of implementation costs include the development of political and legal frameworks, capacity building and the training of (new) staff, the development of IT or physical infrastructure or public awareness campaigns.
Examples of annual costs include salaries and social benefits, administrative costs, infrastructure maintenance and the costs associated with implementing the proposed measures.
The total costs of the complete election program are listed separately from the total revenue.
Volt Europe	48Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
4. Good jobs and prosperity for all
Average incomes in Europe have grown in recent decades. However, this has not happened fast enough and has not benefited everyone. The increase in productivity has also slowed and has not benefited everyone equally. As a result, there are significant inequalities within the EU, both locally and between member states. Such a two-tier market means that some workers have secure and stable jobs, while others with fewer rights have to remain in insecure and precarious employment.
Some regions with great potential for sustainable growth experienced a significant shortage of skilled workers and the associated disadvantages for young people on the labor market.
At the same time, women* continue to be underrepresented in well-paid jobs and bear the greater burden of unpaid domestic and care work.
There are many vacancies that remain unfilled due to poor working conditions, with labor rights and protections unevenly enforced across member states. These inequalities affect the well-being of workers and hinder the creation of social cohesion across borders.
The clear lack of sufficient mechanisms for social cohesion at European level further exacerbates the situation and slows down the cooperation needed to overcome common challenges. As a result, poverty remains at an alarmingly high level.
By creating a productive, fair and meaningful working environment for all citizens, we can achieve the emergence of a European social union that supports all Europeans and guarantees their rights. The use of technologies such as automation, AI and green technologies will increase labor productivity, leading to new types of jobs, higher wages and reduced working hours. If we ensure that EU citizens have the skills and education required for these technologies, their use will reduce the burden on workers. Remote work can unleash the full potential of the European labor market. At the same time, robust labour rights ensure fair wages and working conditions for all workers by harmonizing standards across the European Union.
Finally, we propose ending tax competition between Member States and facilitating the harmonization of taxation by defining a common minimum tax base for direct taxation in the EU.
Volt Europe	49Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
4.1 A genuine European social union
• Development towards a genuine European social union. This is to be achieved in the course of establishing a new EU Ministry of Finance (see the chapters "Europe's path to sustainable prosperity" and "Strengthening the
EU") as the coordinating institution, which will manage an EU budget that is three times larger. This enlarged budget aims to make strategic investments, address social inequalities and protect against economic downturns. Our proposals are:
> A European Basic Income (EBI). This is based on a negative income tax, where people below a certain income threshold receive payments instead of paying taxes.
This creates a safety net and promotes employment, which helps people to escape poverty traps. The EU Ministry of Finance is to finance this from the EU budget so that all EU citizens, adjusted to the purchasing power of the respective region, have access to an income of at least
500 per month. This income would help many EU citizens to cover their basic living costs. With the European Basic Income, we can take a big step towards a truly united European Union. The legal basis for the European Basic Income has already been established for all member states by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on state aid is binding.
> Creation of incentives for member states to reduce the number of tax exemptions and to apply lower income tax rates and reduce the number of taxes.
This should simplify the tax system and at the same time ensure that citizens can lead a dignified life with the European Basic Income.
> Enforcement of regional minimum wage standards. This should be done in coordination with the member states or a high degree of trade union coverage to ensure that the European Basic Income cannot be exploited.
> Harmonization of taxation procedures between member states so that people have fewer obstacles to working and living in different European countries.
> Creation of a common EU tax base for direct taxes. In doing so, we want to introduce EU-wide minimum effective rates for gift, inheritance and wealth taxation using the European Central Wealth Register (see chapter
"Europe's path to sustainable prosperity").
Volt Europe	50Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
4.2 European social assistance for all
• Harmonization of social systems throughout the EU by harmonizing regulations for pensions, sick leave, unemployment insurance and childcare.
• 
Ensuring childcare for all. Shared parental leave should also be made possible and transferable pension entitlements should be granted between member states.
Volt Europe	51Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
4.3 Protection of employee rights
• Harmonization of European labor law, including a standardized model employment contract for the European Union.
• Enforce the protection of the rights of part- time workers (gig) by requiring Member States to either protect them in the same way as full-time workers or introduce similar protections in relation to health, pensions and unemployment.
• Actively enforce workers' rights under the EU "Blue Book" by creating a European mechanism to monitor rights violations in the workplace, both for nationals and migrants.
• 
Introduction of measures to promote gender equality.
• Introduction of ethical recruitment guidelines and principles. These may include a ban on abusive practices and recruitment fees, as well as improved access to information
for employees. This includes labor and trade union rights, grievance mechanisms and redress mechanisms.
• Introduction of a protected right,
to be offline outside working hours.
Volt Europe	52Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
4.4 Right to work from home
• Obligation of employers to accept the wish of employees to work from home. Unless a reasonable and fair reason can be given as to why this should not be done.
• 
Updating legal regulations to make it legally and fiscally easier to work from anywhere in the EU (teleworking).
• Introduction of special regulations to protect the right of teleworkers to rest breaks and mental disconnection.
Volt Europe	53Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
4.5 Education in the 21st century
• Focus EU education policy on promoting STEM+K subjects (science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics) as well as "life skills and responsibility" (see the chapter "Making Europe's society more inclusive"). This is what we want:
> Introduce a special program to promote entrepreneurial skills and financial literacy in schools across the EU.
> increase the focus on the development of digital skills in primary and secondary schools within the EU, including media literacy. This also includes basic IT skills, information literacy and
"Computational thinking (including understanding how artificial intelligence works). We are committed to accelerating the timetable of the EU's Digital Education Action Plan.
• 
Establish European secondary schools for crafts to increase European productivity through locally produced sustainable consumer goods and increase the value of technical education. This
Schools are supported by EU funding and industry expertise to support pupils aged 10 to 12. The aims are to promote manual skills, internships, specialization and a final masterpiece. The aim is to offer technically gifted pupils an appealing educational pathway without academic stigma.
Volt Europe	54Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
4.6 Further training and retraining
• Establishment of a European skills development fund to
> Subsidization of in-service training for employees who are already employed.
This applies speci
ell for companies that are currently introducing new environmentally friendly technologies and automation technologies.
> 
Provision of a scholarship for three years. The target group is all Europeans who can use it to train for future careers in accredited training institutions in the dual system.
Volt Europe	55Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
4.7 Democracy in the workplace
• Democratization of workplaces. We want to oblige large companies to involve employee representatives in the work of the board of directors.
• Promote the formation of trade unions. We want to protect the right to collective bargaining and remove barriers to the emergence of new trade unions and other forms of employee representation.
• 
Creation of a Europe-wide harmonized legal form for cooperatively organized companies, which should receive administrative support and tax benefits. In this way, we want to promote this legal form in strategically important economic sectors in order to ensure that capital remains in the EU market.
Volt Europe	56Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
How do we bring these proposals to the European Parliament?
The European economy should not exist as an end in itself, but should guarantee prosperity and economic security for all citizens of the European Union. The legal framework of the European Union must better reflect this goal of shared prosperity and economic security. To achieve this, we need legislative changes and new laws.
This chapter describes ambitions for a European basic income, an EU tax reform, a European minimum wage and collective bargaining as well as a European social union. The introduction of a European basic income requires far-reaching changes, as the EU currently has no direct competence for social security. Article 153 TFEU (Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) allows the European Parliament to adopt supporting measures to ensure basic social rights. A new protocol could give the EU the competence to develop and finance such a basic income. A harmonized EU tax base for gift and inheritance taxes as well as wealth taxes can
be achieved through the adoption of directives similar to the VAT Directives.
The introduction of EU taxes requires, among other things, an amendment to Article 311 TFEU, which deals with the system of own resources of the EU.
European Union. A treaty amendment is necessary to enable direct tax collection by the European Union. We therefore support Parliament's call to open up the EU treaties to a convention consisting of representatives of the national parliaments, the heads of state or government of the member states, the European Parliament and the Commission to examine the proposal for a treaty amendment. In doing so, we will ensure that the European Union is given responsibility for tax collection and borrowing. Potential indirect taxes, such as digital or emissions taxes, could be included in a new protocol with
be determined with the unanimous consent of the member states. Directive (EU) 2022/2041 on adequate minimum wages in the European Union already exists, but needs to be strengthened. To introduce European minimum wages and to promote
Article 153 TFEU is used for cross-border collective bargaining. This provision enables coordinated action with regard to working conditions and social protection. An amendment to the TFEU would make it possible to deepen the integration of social policy. This would create a legal framework for cooperation while preserving the autonomy of the Member States.
Volt Europe	57Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 QUALITY OF LIFE
What expenditure and income do these proposals generate?
The total costs of the proposed measures in this chapter, consisting of the implementation costs and the annual costs over five years, amount to € 1,290,559,000,000 (€ 1.3 trillion). The Implementation costs amount to € 20,929,000,000 and the annual costs amount to € 253,926,000,000.
Examples of implementation costs include the development of political and legal frameworks, capacity building and the training of (new) staff, the development of IT or physical infrastructure or public awareness campaigns.
Examples of annual costs include salaries and social benefits, administrative costs, infrastructure maintenance and the costs associated with implementing the proposed measures.
The total costs of the complete election program are listed separately from the total revenue.
Volt Europe	58Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5. Asylum seekers and refugees
Due to delayed decisions, inhumane reception conditions, mass detentions and the and exclusion at the EU borders, asylum seekers and refugees must
live in Europe under difficult conditions. The distribution of asylum seekers among the member states is still controversial and leaves people in need of protection in a legal limbo.
The current system is dysfunctional and forces asylum seekers to t a k e unsafe, illegal routes. Violations of EU law by European border control authorities and limited search and rescue operations exacerbate the disorganization. As a result, the questionable agreements between EU member states and autocratic
regimes at their borders are not a viable solution and contribute to unnecessary deaths.
The need for change is becoming even more urgent as unprecedented numbers of people worldwide are displaced by various factors such as wars, persecution and environmental disasters. However, most refugees seek refuge in neighboring countries, not in Europe. Volt recognizes that although refugees in the EU make up only a small fraction of the total population, they contribute to the multicultural and diverse fabric of European societies. To overcome these challenges, Europe needs an efficient, fair and humane system. The Asylum and Refugee Act offers concrete solutions to the challenges of integrating asylum s e e k e r s and refugees. It establishes uniform, swift and fair asylum procedures and reception conditions that ensure humane treatment on an equal footing.
In order to reduce the disproportionate burden on border states and ensure that people are placed in an environment where they can rebuild their lives, this chapter proposes a fair redistribution system. This starts on arrival: Asylum seekers are distributed evenly according to objective criteria, taking into account personal preferences. Priority is given to immediate access to social, legal, medical and psychological assistance. As a result, the law promotes the immediate integration and empowerment of refugees and asylum seekers and recognizes their potential to contribute to society.
We also emphasize the protection of the human rights of vulnerable people. Safe, regular routes should be created for refugees and violations of their rights should be monitored. Human rights are safeguarded through the legal recognition of climate refugees. This represents a forward-looking approach t o overcoming the challenges of climate-induced displacement. The establishment of additional regular channels for labor migration, as set out in the Labor Migration Act, will reduce the influx of asylum seekers to Europe. This law improves the conditions for asylum seekers within the EU. It also addresses problems beyond the borders of the EU. The focus here is on the causes of flight and improving reception conditions in the region.
Volt Europe	59Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.1 The right of asylum
• Support decentralized asylum procedures at destinations where integration efforts are possible during the asylum procedure. Asylum applications should not be outsourced to remote locations or even third countries.
• Support the EU's commitment to human rights and its international obligations and ensure the integrity of the asylum procedure process within the EU.
• 
Granting refugees refuge and protection in accordance with the Geneva Convention. External agreements that jeopardize the well-being of refugees or violate their human rights are rejected. Increased commitment to international instruments such as the Global Refugee Forum and constructive cooperation with third countries, the UNHCR, scientists and other voluntary refugee organizations.
Volt Europe	60Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.2 Safe and regulated Escape routes
• Establishing regular routes into the EU. The simplification of the visa process, the provision of humanitarian visas and the fair distribution of refugees are intended to prevent the massive loss of life in the EU. Mediterranean and in the Atlantic.
• Implementation of the validity of prima facie recognition and mechanisms of temporary protection.
• 
Create humanitarian corridors to establish safe and legal routes for vulnerable people who often resort to dangerous and illegal routes.
• Support cooperation between governments, international organizations and NGOs. This should help with the identification and reception of people at risk, both during crises and as a long-term solution to the problems of displacement.
Volt Europe	61Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.3 Humane, fast and fair asylum procedures
• Asylum seekers should be registered upon arrival in open registration centers at the EU borders and informed quickly about the procedure. Efficient initial documentation, security checks and medical checks should take place there.
• Simplification of procedures to avoid unnecessary delays and ensure the protection of people in precarious situations. This includes (unaccompanied) minors, pregnant women
Women* and people with disabilities, who should be identified and receive appropriate support throughout the asylum procedure, especially upon arrival.
Unaccompanied minor asylum seekers must have a guardian or specially trained assistant available from the moment of identification.
• 
Creation of a standardized database for use by national and EU authorities.
• Establish a system that ensures that all asylum seekers are transferred to their final member states as quickly as possible.
Volt Europe	62Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.2 Fair distribution system
• Commitment of all Member States to a common European asylum system in which responsibility is shared between the Member States in a spirit of solidarity. They are supported in all aspects of this by the European Asylum Agency (EUAA). The aim is to work towards a European asylum status that is guaranteed throughout Europe by the European Union Asylum Agency.
• Abolition of the principle of first entry and distribution of asylum seekers among the Member States according to a binding distribution key.
• 
Linking the determination of the asylum seeker quota of each member state with important indicators such as GDP and population density. Family and other ties to a community, language skills and qualifications of asylum seekers should also be taken into account. The voluntary solidarity capacities of regions, cities and municipalities are also included in the resettlement efforts. It must be ensured that the cities and municipalities can plan more long-term with regard to their housing and integration capacities on the basis of the distribution key.
• Enforce compliance with these measures by means of a robust system of sanctions against Member States that refuse to comply.
Volt Europe	63Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.5 No detention of asylum seekers
• Enforcement that Member States cannot detain a person for no reason.
• Bringing together the grounds and conditions for detention. The guarantees for detained applicants must be brought into line with the Reception Conditions Directive.
• Ensure that children are never detained.
• Development and application of alternatives to detention of asylum seekers in all Member States.
• 
Ensure that the detention of asylum seekers is always the last resort after all other alternatives have been exhausted.
• Ensure that the rules on detention in the context of the asylum or return procedure are harmonized between Member States.
• Ensure that applicants with special needs have access to all necessary admission measures. This includes rehabilitation measures. The conditions for such exceptions should require minimal criteria and be based on an initial psychological assessment.
Volt Europe	64Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.6 Common European asylum system
• Creation of a common European asylum system with a uniform asylum procedure that respects the dignity and rights of asylum seekers and at the same time promotes social integration and cooperation.
• Acceleration of asylum procedures to a maximum of 3 months between entry and the first decision. Social, legal and psychological support and humane conditions must be guaranteed during the procedure. Positive decisions are to be used subject to review if the administrations are overburdened.
• Ensure that the EUAA remains the body responsible for developing a standardized asylum procedure. The EUAA should be enabled to work intensively with the member states to modernize their asylum systems so that they can meet the challenges. The EUAA should thus be enabled to intervene independently in order to ensure that even a large number of arrivals can be processed in an orderly manner. This applies in particular to arrivals by sea.
• 
Harmonization of standards for uniform procedures and reception conditions. This includes the goal of ensuring that the decision on granting asylum is the same in every member state.
• Protection from harassment and violence based on an applicant's gender. This includes gender identity and sexual orientation and requires the systematic application of the concept of gender equality.
"Special social group" of the Geneva Convention.
• Opportunity for asylum seekers to recover from their journey before their asylum interview. This is intended to prevent inadequate preparation or limited opportunities to seek legal assistance and thus minimize the risk of negative decisions due to difficulties in presenting their case.
• Updating the Eurodac database for efficient identification, including health information.
• Establishment of a transparent system for monitoring compliance with EU asylum regulations by the Member States.
Volt Europe	65Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.7 Integration and empowerment of refugees and asylum seekers
• Ensure that refugees have at least the same rights and pathways to citizenship as other third-country nationals in the Member States.
• Establishment of a local integration fund. All integration takes place locally in order to meet the growing needs of cities and municipalities. At the same time, integration is to be added as a European competence.
• Support social housing and other community-based, decentralized infrastructures for the most vulnerable groups. This includes locals and asylum seekers and the development of integrative local centers. Health services, education, cultural exchanges, voluntary activities, language classes, training and retraining must be provided to benefit the local population, asylum seekers and migrants in need.
• 
Permission for asylum seekers to work from day one. It must be ensured that work permits are always issued for a sufficient period of time to enable meaningful employment.
• Reunification of asylum seekers with their families as soon as possible after their arrival. The right to family reunification should be guaranteed for refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection in accordance with the Family Reunification Directive (2003/86/EC).
• Better representation of migrants' voices in political spheres and active engagement with migration councils at local, national and European level.
Volt Europe	66Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.8 Ending statelessness
• Harmonization of administrative procedures for the recognition of statelessness in order to facilitate access to nationality for stateless persons. On essential services, support for unaccompanied stateless minors and the exchange on
Access must be granted to tried and tested procedures between EU member states.
• 
Safeguarding the rights of stateless persons. This must contribute to their integration and well-being in the European Union.
Volt Europe	67Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.9 Reform of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency
• Improve and ensure EU search and rescue operations (SAR operations) and humanitarian efforts that mitigate or eliminate the risks of irregular routes (e.g. sea rescue or evacuation). The legality of humanitarian efforts must be protected and official cooperation with EU and national authorities must be guaranteed.
• Regular publication of reports and forwarding them to members of the European Parliament and national parliaments. In this way, we want to create transparency as a matter of priority.
It must be ensured that
Frontex fundamental rights officers are part of every operation and all pushbacks through national border controls are brought before a national court. We want to strengthen the EUAA's cooperation with Frontex to improve the protection of asylum seekers.
• Strengthen the monitoring of all operations in order to systematically investigate allegations of human rights violations. A zero-tolerance policy towards personnel involved in violations of fundamental rights or obstructing investigations must be pursued.
Volt Europe	68Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.10 Combating human trafficking
• Integration of a victim-centered approach to tackle the complex challenges of human trafficking. This includes crimes such as migrant smuggling criminality and cybercrime. This includes an all- encompassing strategy that prioritizes the assessment of individual needs over law enforcement interests, spanning the European, national and local levels, and providing assistance and protection to victims of trafficking.
• Addressing the challenges posed by the increasing digitalization of human trafficking and improving the response of criminal law to technology-enabled crimes.
• 
Facilitate the tracing, freezing, administration and confiscation of the proceeds of trafficking in human beings.
• Inclusion of feminist and disability-specific perspectives with a focus on prevention strategies.
• Promotion of international cooperation.
Volt Europe	69Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.11 International development cooperation
• No one should be forced to leave the safety of their home. This is to be achieved in the medium term through the following promotion of development cooperation:
> Additional combination of short-term humanitarian aid with long-term development strategies.
> Promotion of economic opportunities in vulnerable countries through support packages and direct investments.
> Strengthening partnerships with African countries as part of the Africa strategy.
> Decoupling cooperation with third countries from migration policy.
> Promotion of educational programs on migration. These are to be supported by the EU and migration associations in these countries.
> 
Ensure the protection of human rights in any migration pact with third countries. This includes the inclusion of human rights standards.
• Improving regional reception, also via the Global Refugee Forum.
> Establishment of international support structures for internally displaced persons (IDPs) within their countries.
> Offer international support to host countries and provide resources for safe humanitarian centers in crisis- prone regions.
> Ensuring shelter, education and simplified resettlement processes.
Volt Europe	70Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.12 Improving returns
• Respect for human rights must be at the heart of all EU readmission agreements. At the same time, we reject agreements with authoritarian regimes. Partnerships with third countries for coordinated returns should be given priority if they are part of a respectful and mutually beneficial return process and in conjunction with the legal migration policy.
• Ensure that EU countries support fundamental rights and procedural safeguards when carrying out returns and voluntary returns.
• Harmonization of the approach of the Member States and the concept of a safe third country.
• 
Adherence to the principle of non-refoulement. We reject the return of migrants to countries that are not considered safe.
• Creating access to legal advice and support. This includes integrated reintegration programs in the country of origin that are tailored to the needs of returnees.
• Respect for individual circumstances and human dignity in promoting successful reintegration in the countries of origin.
Volt Europe	71Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
5.13 Legal protection for Climate refugees
• Adaptation of the current EU framework to achieve the recognition of a legally binding definition of climate refugees. It must be ensured that the term is included in international law and that humanitarian visas are extended to climate refugees.
Volt Europe	72Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
How do we bring these proposals to the European Parliament?
The right to asylum, enshrined in Article 18 of the EU Charter, is a fundamental right that Volt wants to secure and strengthen in further legislation. This includes a revision of the new Pact on Migration and Asylum, which was proposed in September 2020. The pact was accompanied by several legislative proposals, including the Qualification Regulation 2016/0223 (COD), the Asylum Procedures Regulation 2016/0224 (COD), the Reception Conditions Directive 2016/0222 (COD) and the Asylum and Migration Management Regulation 2020/0279(COD) (AMMR), which was recently adopted by the Council.
Volt aims to provide the Union with powers to legislate on harmonized integration policy on the occasion of an upcoming treaty change. We want to propose further updates to EU legislation. In addition, the so-called solidarity mechanism as set out in the AMMR, which currently facilitates relocation, needs to be amended,
to ensure fair and efficient resettlement. This amendment must take into account the personal connections of the refugees as well as the key indicators of the Member States such as
e.g. take GDP into account. Volt also calls for the proposed Asylum Procedures Regulation 2016/0224 (COD) to be amended to further
harmonization of asylum procedures and consideration for humane and lean procedures at the borders. The proposed Qualification Regulation 2016/0223 (COD) and the Reception Conditions Directive 2016/0222 (COD) must meet the standards
in the Member States. This includes a uniform approach to granting asylum and adequate reception conditions. In addition, the regulations should emphasize that the detention of asylum seekers can only be a last resort and ensure that minors may not be detained. Volt also wants to support the revision of Directive 2011/36/EU on combating trafficking in human beings and call on all member states to promote the early detection of trafficking in human beings. improve the identification and referral of victims to support organizations. This applies in particular in connection with the asylum procedure. Refugees and persons enjoying subsidiary protection have the same right to family reunification in accordance with Directive 2003/86/EC. The status of climate refugees should be recognized. Volt will advocate for international and EU treaties as well as secondary rights such as the Qualification Directive for the recognition of refugee status.
Volt Europe	73Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
What expenditure and income do these proposals generate?
The total cost of the measures in this chapter, including implementation costs and annual costs over five years, is € 66,314,000,000. The implementation costs amount to € 3,539,000,000 and the annual costs to € 12,555,000,000.
Examples of implementation costs include the development of political and legal frameworks, capacity building and the training of (new) staff, the development of IT or physical infrastructure or public awareness campaigns.
Examples of annual costs include salaries and social benefits, administrative costs, infrastructure maintenance and the costs associated with implementing the proposed measures.
The total costs of the complete election program are listed separately from the total revenue.
Volt Europe	74Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
6. Labor migration
Europe's demographic challenge, made tangible by an ageing population and an acute shortage of skilled workers, can also offer an opportunity for innovation and growth. Facing up to the problem opens up opportunities that can improve Europe's long-term competitiveness and economic resilience. It is therefore necessary to attract international skilled workers without weakening the rights of non-EU workers. This balance is crucial to prevent labor exploitation and create an attractive environment for third-country nationals at all wage levels.
Workers in the low and middle-income sector are often exposed to precarious conditions. Especially without EU status, they run the risk of being exploited, as their employment is tied to very specific employers. In contrast, highly skilled migrant workers face bureaucratic hurdles that limit their flexibility within the European labor market and ensure that many skilled workers emigrate to more attractive countries such as Canada, the USA and Australia instead.
The fragmentation of labor markets within the EU member states poses a challenge to the competitiveness of the entire European Union. A common European approach to labor migration would stimulate the labor market and promote growth. To achieve this, migration must be managed effectively, skills shortages must be compensated for and critical sectors must be supported. This also promotes innovation in the long term. Increased mobility of nationals from non-European third countries would enable them to counteract critical developments in the respective labor market not only in a single country, but throughout the EU. This would benefit both the European economy and local communities.
Volt is committed to establishing an efficient migration system. This should respect the rights of migrants, improve their integration into the EU labor market, promote our global competitiveness and strengthen prosperity and social cohesion within the European Union.
To this end, we are campaigning for a uniform European legal framework. This should decouple residence permits from specific employers and ensure the right to family reunification and access to social benefits.
These changes empower migrants and create a fair and equal European labor market.
We are also committed to creating safe and regular migration routes. In this way, we want to eliminate labor shortages and skills gaps in a targeted manner and thus make the EU labor market more dynamic, more responsive and therefore more future-proof.
At the same time, the advantages of freedom of movement within Europe must be recognized. This leads to a simplification of processes, efficient labor markets and thus better integration of migrants. This approach makes the European Union as a whole more attractive, more competitive and promotes the development and prosperity of all member states.
Volt Europe	75Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
6.1 Migration of low- and middle-income workers
• Introduction of a European migration code that creates new legal pathways for all wage and qualification levels to address the labor shortage in an aging society.
• Recruit international skilled workers with a "Make it in Europe" program to fill vacancies from European employers with international skilled workers of all wage and qualification levels.
• Establishment of an EU skilled labor force matching platform (EU talent pool) for migrant workers, the regional
market differences within the EU and facilitates the recognition of foreign qualifications and skills at EU level.
• Simplifying the recognition of qualifications and skills that were not acquired in the EU in order to open up new perspectives for international students, researchers and other professionals.
• Acceleration of visa procedures, so that they last a maximum of three months.
• Creating regulated opportunities to meet the current unmet demand in low and middle-wage sectors. This includes new offers such as visas for job seekers and
trainees or programs specifically designed to promote the flexibility of young people in the European labor market.
• Freedom of movement for migrant workers with visas within the EU.
• Possibility for immigrants within the EU to apply for a residence permit. This should be possible regardless of their status or the absence of a residence permit.
• Strengthen the right to family reunification for all migrants by improving the Family Reunification Directive.
• Improved access to the social system for migrants. This includes the right to healthcare, social security, housing, justice and gender equality.
• Add English as an official language. Migrant workers, whether from outside or inside the EU, should have access to translation services when dealing with government bureaucracy so that the language barrier is no longer an obstacle. This can be achieved through centralized, digital platforms and would improve access to social security or unemployment rights.
Volt Europe	76Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
• Protect migrant workers from labor exploitation. To this end, residence permits should no longer be linked to individual employers and specific jobs. Their duration of stay should be extended. This applies in particular to the protection of people in seasonal and temporary employment, as the loss of employment should not automatically lead to the loss of residence status.
• Strengthen Commission guidelines to encourage victims of labor exploitation to report their experiences to a monitoring authority without the risk of deportation.
• 
Establish a "firewall" between labor jurisdiction and immigration enforcement. This should enable migrant workers to safely lodge a complaint against abusive employers without fear of losing their residence status or, in the case of undocumented migrants, being arrested and deported. The European Labor Office can play an important role in coordinating this.
• Imposing stricter and more sensitive EU sanctions against Member States where there are repeated cases of exploitation of migrant workers.
Volt Europe	77Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
6.2 Migration of highly qualified Labor force
• Creation of an open and dynamic immigration concept. This applies in particular to highly skilled workers from outside the EU. This is the only way to overcome the challenges of the 21st century, from geopolitical tensions and international competition to the climate crisis and growing inequalities.
• Develop new framework conditions to attract skilled workers who contribute to innovation, growth and competitiveness. Fair and transparent conditions must be guaranteed for all employees, regardless of their origin.
• Strengthening social cohesion and improving integration by promoting cultural diversity, mutual respect and civic participation.
• Introduction of an EU Blue Card system to simplify and harmonize admission criteria. The procedure for
highly qualified workers must be simplified and harmonized:
> Application: Unbureaucratic, fast and simplified online procedure with a standardized EU-wide application process (maximum processing time of 14 days).
> 
Renewal: Simplified online procedure for renewal with a longer validity period.
> Mobility: Flexible and standardized EU-wide mobility program for highly
qualified migrants who want to take up a job in another EU country in order to keep these highly qualified workers in the EU.
> Naturalization: Free, simple and fast naturalization procedure for migrant workers who have spent 3 years in the EU and contributed to the EU economy (maximum 2 months processing time).
• Establish an EU Skills Pool to match highly skilled workers with jobs across the EU. This will be done through an online platform that allows workers to register their profile, skills, qualifications and preferences and allows employers to access the pool and offer jobs to suitable candidates.
• Introduction of an EU framework for the recognition of qualifications. This is intended to facilitate the unbureaucratic recognition of foreign qualifications and competences throughout the EU and
Volt Europe	78Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
common standards, guidelines and instruments for the assessment and validation of qualifications acquired outside the EU.
• Introduction of an EU integration strategy to support the social inclusion of highly skilled workers and their families. This should include language courses, cultural orientation programs, mentoring programs and civic initiatives, promote dialogue and improve cooperation between migrants and their host communities.
Volt Europe	79Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
6.3 Irregular migration
• Ensuring important services, protection and support for people who do not have legal status. Fair treatment and real integration opportunities should reduce exploitation and promote social cohesion.
• 
Introduction of an orderly and conditional administrative system. This should enable a change of status from irregular to regular economic migration without undermining asylum decisions at the same time.
Volt Europe	80Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
How do we bring these proposals to the European Parliament?
In accordance with Article 79 of the TFEU, the EU can influence the conditions of entry and residence and the definition of the rights of third-country nationals residing lawfully in a Member State. It also lays down the right to non-discrimination in Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Volt demands that the basic idea behind the "New Pact of Migration and Asylum" is safe and legal migration, equal rights for non-EU workers and approaches to legalizing undocumented migrants.
migrants will be consistently pursued. By strengthening the existing legal provisions in the area of integration of third-country nationals and the rights of migrants and their families, legal pathways into the EU should be made possible.
Volt wants to develop a European migration code. Among other things, this will include a pool of skilled workers to meet labor needs in the EU member states.
for all wage and qualification levels. This will actively combat the labor shortage in an aging society. Volt wants to support family reunification for all migrant workers by consistently implementing the Family Reunification Directive 2003/86/EC. In addition, a modernized Directive 2022/0131(COD) should strengthen the right to work and reside in the EU and the right to equal treatment, especially for workers on low and medium wages. Volt supports the revision of the Long-term Residents Directive 2003/109/EC to allow third-country nationals to apply for citizenship after 3 years of legal residence in the Union in all Member States.
Volt also wants to extend new rights under the revised Blue Card Directive by exempting professions from the requirement to have a high school diploma.
Volt Europe	81Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 HUMANE MIGRATION
What expenditure and income do these proposals generate?
The total costs of these claims, which are made up of the costs for implementation and the annual costs (calculated over 5 years), amount to € 4,753,000,000. The implementation costs amount to € 645,500,000 and the annual costs to € 821,500,000.
Examples of implementation costs include the development of political and legal frameworks, capacity building and the training of (new) staff, the development of IT or physical infrastructure or public awareness campaigns.
Examples of annual costs include salaries and social benefits, administrative costs, infrastructure maintenance and the costs associated with implementing the proposed measures.
The total costs of the complete election program are listed separately from the total revenue.
Volt Europe	82Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
7. Strengthening the EU
For over 70 years now, after two devastating world wars, Europe has shown how we can stand together, across borders and with humanity, against division and destruction and achieve peace and prosperity. But the EU must continue to develop, because it could do so much more! At a time when populism is on the rise, we absolutely must shape our EU in such a way that it works for us all.
An "ever more united union of the peoples of Europe" cannot be achieved if we do not take ambitious steps towards a federal Europe.
The European Union is just as important today as it was when it was founded after the Second World War and is increasingly becoming a geopolitical necessity. Issues such as the climate crisis, migration, global economic competition and the disregard for the rules-based international order cannot be resolved by small, individual actors.
can only be tackled by the Member States themselves, but require joint action. Even within the EU, the current structure allows each individual member state t o t a k e important decisions.
block legislation, sanctions packages or trade agreements that can be of fundamental importance to millions of European citizens. To achieve tangible benefits and better help its citizens, the EU must be reformed.
The "Strengthening the EU" chapter aims to demonstrate the EU's ability to act collectively. Volt wants to ensure that member states work together effectively to overcome common challenges. Strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the EU is of central importance here. The current institutional framework prioritizes the interests of member states over those of citizens, leading to decision-making processes that are inefficient and heavily influenced by national interests. This limits the EU's ability to act quickly, purposefully and in the interests of its citizens.
In view of the forthcoming EU enlargement, the old decision-making processes also need to be reformed. This will make the countless interlinked challenges we face visible. Additional votes in the Council after enlargement will intensify the debate. This comes with the risk of regular deadlock. Furthermore, the European Parliament, the only EU institution directly elected by citizens, is still not entitled to propose legislation and must wait for other institutions to take action.
The introduction of a European constitution and an elected EU government will increase transparency and put citizens and democratic legitimacy at the heart of European democracy. Bridging the gap between the
This will strengthen trust in the Union, create a truly representative European democracy and counteract harmful disillusionment in the political system. It will also enable the EU to respond effectively to challenges at home and abroad. The formation of a genuine fiscal and monetary union will create a coherent, unified and transparent system that will improve the EU's ability to respond effectively to economic upheavals.
Volt Europe	83Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
7.1 Federal Europe
• Initiation of a European Congress on the reform of the European Treaties in the new legislative period:
> Engagement in citizens' debates to define and shape the values, competences, finances and institutional set-up of a federal Europe, building on the European Parliament's proposal to reform the EU.
> 
Building a European federal declaration and the legitimate basis for a constitutional congress to draft a European constitution that establishes a federal Europe based on democratic legitimacy and accountability.
Volt Europe	84Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
7.2 A European government
• Reform of the European Commission into a European government.
> Election of an EU Prime Minister from among the Members of the European Parliament to replace the President of the European Commission.
> The prime minister will be in charge of a cabinet whose size is not based on the number of member states, but on the needs of the EU government and its citizens. There should be no more than one minister from each member state.
> The Prime Minister will be able to nominate ministers, who will then be elected by the European Parliament.
must be confirmed. Each of them will head a ministry, which will replace the current system of directorates-general in the European Commission.
> Any minister or the entire European government can be removed from office at any time by a vote of no confidence by the European Parliament. In this way, the European Parliament will be accountable to the European citizens.
> This executive will be accountable to the voters, depending on the confidence of the European Parliament and the European Senate.
Volt Europe	85Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
7.3 Legislative initiative for the European Parliament
• The role of the European Parliament must change from merely co-deciding on laws to participating in the initiation of new laws - a power that would be shared with the Senate, EU citizens via the European Citizens' Initiative (ECI), and the European government.
• New laws are proposed by a parliamentary group or an equivalent minimum number of individual MPs that would be required to form a parliamentary group.
• 
The EU government is consulted and can propose changes, but the right to vote lies with the legislature: the European Parliament and the European Senate.
Volt Europe	86Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
7.4 A European Senate
• Introduction of a European Senate:
> Transformation of the Council of the European Union into a European Senate, which serves as the second chamber of the EU. The European Council is abolished.
> The member states are represented in the European Senate by the same number of senators, who are delegated by the respective national parliaments. The equal number of senators means that all member states have equal representation in this chamber.
• 
Ensure that, in the meantime, decisions in the European Council are taken by qualified majority instead of unanimity. This is particularly relevant for issues that currently fall under the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP), such as sanctions, but also for enlargement or taxes. For certain decisions, such as treaty amendments, military missions or EU enlargement, a form of enhanced qualified majority will apply.
Volt Europe	87Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
7.5 European Constitutional Court and Court of Human Rights (ECtHR)
• Conversion of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) into a constitutional court to consolidate the legal and democratic foundations of the European Union. This contributes to a uniform interpretation of EU law and reaffirms the primacy of EU legislation. The democratic engagement of citizens and member states is to be deepened through a structured platform for challenging and reviewing EU decisions from a constitutional and fundamental rights perspective.
• 
Harmonization of human rights standards within the Community. The judgments of the ECtHR must apply universally. This also applies to incentives for the
proactive compliance and simplification of enforcement procedures.
Volt Europe	88Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
7.6 Fiscal and monetary union
• Tripling the EU budget. We call for a fundamental reform of the European Union's finances by tripling the EU budget in order to enable public investment, eliminate social imbalances and
stabilize the economy during economic downturns.
• Levying European taxes. A democratic Europe should be able to levy taxes to finance the EU budget, in particular taxes on climate-damaging consumption and large fortunes. This should be flanked by clear and binding budget rules
for the member states, but which allow more flexibility than the current interpretation of the Maastricht criteria.
• The EU should be allowed to borrow for investments in economic development projects that benefit the whole of Europe. The creation of such European government bonds will strengthen the stability of the integrated financial market as a safe asset. At the same time, this new fiscal and monetary union should provide more effective institutionalized instruments to ensure that member states maintain a structurally balanced budget.
• 
Creation of budgetary policy instruments that automatically increase European government spending during economic downturns and provide more financial flexibility in the event of an impending recession.
• Encouraging Member States that have not yet adopted the euro to do so in order to promote economic cohesion and stability in Europe.
• Expansion of the mandate of the European Central Bank (ECB) to a "dual mandate" aimed at both price stability and full employment, so that European economic performance is based on both financial stability and inclusive growth.
• Establishment of an EU Ministry of Finance to act as a central regulatory authority that sets standards for national tax and regulatory authorities.
Volt Europe	89Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
7.7 Enforcement of legislation
• Establishment of independent authorities at European level to oversee the interpretation of core concepts and harmonized
application of the EU body of standards, which is constantly evolving, in the various jurisdictions of the EU:
> Cooperation with representatives of the member states, researchers and civil society. This should not be done in a directive-bound manner.
> Issuing guidelines and binding decisions on the application of the horizontal legal framework and on all resulting (vertical) legislative proposals.
> 
Overseeing the application and cross- border enforcement of the Regulation, incorporating different views to ensure consistent application by national supervisory authorities and acting as a dispute resolution body.
Volt Europe	90Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
How do we bring these proposals to the European Parliament?
To strengthen the collective action of the EU, Volt wants to set up a European Convention on a Federal Europe. This convention would transform the two EU treaties into a European constitution and modernize the legal framework by planning a reform of the role of the institutions of the European Union. The Council of the European Union should be transformed into a European Senate, which would act as a
second chamber of the EU. This requires an amendment to the Treaty with regard to the procedure for creating the Council in Article 15 TEU. In addition, the legislative powers of the European Parliament should be extended by giving it legislative competence. This requires an amendment to Article 17 TEU, which currently only allows the Commission to take such an initiative. This should apply unless otherwise stipulated in the treaties.
Volt aims to make the EU's decision-making process more effective by replacing unanimity for Council decisions with qualified majority voting in accordance with
Article 7 TEU replaced. Volt would also like to through the abolition of the veto right of the
Member States should strengthen the fundamental values and principles of the Union in Article 2 TEU, such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, in Council decisions. With regard to the Union's legal system, Volt advocates the binding nature of the enforcement of Article 6 TEU for the judgments of the European Convention on Human Rights for the EU and thus also for the Member States. This is essential for the equal protection of human rights standards in the Community. In addition, a truly uniform tax system requires that European taxes can be levied. The ability to levy direct taxes requires new EU laws that extend and supplement existing standards and allow taxation at European level. In order to
To exploit the potential of indirect taxes, such as digital or carbon taxes, a new protocol can be drawn up based on the consent of the Member States. The implementation of binding budgetary rules that keep public debt in check requires, among other things, a reform of Article 121 TFEU.
Volt Europe	91Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
What expenditure and income do these proposals generate?
The total cost of this law, which is made up of the implementation costs and the annual costs over five years, amounts to € 4,306,500,000. The implementation costs amount to € 876,500,000 and the annual costs amount to € 686,000,000.
Examples of implementation costs include the development of political and legal frameworks, capacity building and the training of (new) staff, the development of IT or physical infrastructure or public awareness campaigns.
Examples of annual costs include salaries and social benefits, administrative costs, infrastructure maintenance and the costs associated with implementing the proposed measures.
The total costs of the complete election program are listed separately from the total revenue.
Volt Europe	92Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8. European democracy
The EU must become more democratic in order to become fairer and be able to overcome the current challenges. The current European Union prioritizes national interests over the interests of 500 million citizens. Such a system creates fundamental problems and widens the gap between citizens and the institutions that govern them. The result is a misalignment and a democratic deficit that undermines public confidence in the European project.
Political dissatisfaction is exacerbated by a lack of transparency. This obscures decision- making in the EU. The European Council has become one of the most powerful political bodies. However, it is also the least transparent body, as backroom deals are made without scrutiny that affect the fate of millions of European citizens. This has contributed to growing disappointment among Europeans. Because they are excluded from the processes that determine their lives.
The European Democracy Act aims to create a clear link between European citizens and EU decision-making processes, address systemic shortcomings and bridge the gap between citizens and their institutions. Citizens will be able to understand and influence the decisions that shape their lives. We will improve the transparency of EU processes by creating accountability within the EU apparatus and promoting citizen participation in the decision- making process.
Crucially, this law envisions a Europe in which the interests and voices of individuals are at the center and the limitations of national politics are overcome. By redesigning electoral and parliamentary systems, the aim is to create a European democracy that is honest, representative, accountable and responsive to the needs of all individuals.
This requires a robust European media landscape that promotes transparency and informed citizens. This legislative package therefore promotes the independence, diversity and integrity of the media and takes measures to combat rampant disinformation in the digital age.
Volt Europe	93Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.1 European political parties
• Reform of the current structure of European political parties, which consist of national parties with often conflicting interests and priorities. These parties currently focus on representing national or regional interests rather than the interests of European citizens.
• Create fully-fledged, pan-European political parties that promote the general interest of all European citizens.
• 
Reform the regulation on European political parties to make individual citizen membership the standard, as opposed to the current model where European parties are alliances of national parties.
• Enabling a stronger and coherent link between European parties and their national, regional and local branches working under one name across the EU.
Volt Europe	94Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.2 Harmonization of voting systems for European elections
• Participation in elections and voting must be made as easy as possible and EU elections must be Europeanized so that MEPs are truly accountable to citizens.
• The EU electoral system will be reformed and harmonized by lowering the legal voting age to 16 and the minimum age for standing as a candidate to 18. An EU-wide
A uniform election date was proposed and common election campaign rules and mechanisms were introduced.
• The EU will gradually be transformed into a single constituency where voters elect their representatives from transnational lists. Voters will be given the opportunity to cast two votes, one to elect an MEP from a single national constituency and the other to elect an MEP from a pan-European list. The number of eligible MEPs elected from each list should correspond as closely as possible to the proportion of votes received. This excludes the use of an artificial threshold.
• 
In order to promote gender equality in political representation, the party lists should be ranked alternately according to gender.
be set. Additional representation targets should be set for other minorities in order to ensure a pluralistic and representative parliamentary composition.
• Introduce educational initiatives to ensure that voters are well informed about the electoral process and their rights and responsibilities. Systems to support everyone, including people with disabilities, are put in place so that all can fully participate in the democratic process.
Volt Europe	95Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.3 Voting rights in the country of residence
• Granting full voting rights (universal suffrage) to mobile EU citizens. According to the principle of "no taxation without representation", the European single market should be granted a fifth right: The right to vote in all elections in the country of residence.
• Extension of the right to vote in local and European elections for mobile EU citizens, which has been enshrined in the Maastricht Treaty since 1992, to regional, national and presidential elections.
• 
Granting the conditional full right to vote after 24 months of uninterrupted residence for Member States that are prepared to switch from the right to vote on the basis of nationality to the right to vote on the basis of residence. The right to vote is introduced on the basis of reciprocity in an opt-in procedure.
• Ensure that the votes of the 15 million citizens who now live in an EU Member State other than their country of origin are not lost.
Volt Europe	96Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.4 Citizen participation in shaping policy
• Establishment of a permanent European Citizens' Assembly composed of a randomly selected group of citizens with rotating membership. The assembly would initiate transnational dialogues on a wide range of topics, set agendas and provide feedback on legislative proposals. The resulting recommendations must be taken into account in the relevant political discussions.
• Establish the Conference on the Future of Europe as a recurring event to strengthen its role in shaping our future and that of future generations.
• 
Reform of the European Citizens' Initiative (ECI), giving citizens the opportunity to take political initiative by reducing the number of signatures required from one million to 500,000 and improving online signature collection. All ECIs that exceed this threshold must be discussed in Parliament.
• Adding the protection of sustainability as a core European value to the existing values. The existing values are the protection of democracy, justice, the rule of law, human dignity, human rights and equality.
Volt Europe	97Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.5 Preventing democratic regression
• Accelerating infringement procedures tailored to situations where there is an imminent threat to democratic values, human rights or the rule of law. This will ensure that the EU can immediately stop violations of EU law through robust mechanisms to protect our fundamental values.
• Establishment of early warning systems that trigger preventive steps to deal with the situation at an early stage before it escalates further.
• 
Addressing and managing threats to society as a whole, for example hybrid threats (e.g. disinformation), under a unified strategic deterrence framework (Act 2, Proposal 7).
Volt Europe	98Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.6 Fighting corruption
• Strengthening existing institutions and mechanisms to combat corruption, such as the European Union Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO). We want to fight corruption effectively.
• Improve transparency through detailed and comprehensible reports on the allocation and use of funds and support the disclosure of income and assets of all elected EU mandate holders.
• 
Create a more ambitious EU ethics body to investigate and adjudicate cases of ethical misconduct, conflicts of interest and breaches of integrity within the EU institutions.
Volt Europe	99Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.7 Lobbying regulations
• Increase the waiting period when changing jobs for EU institutions and the private sector from 6 to 12 months to close the "revolving door" that allows corporate lobbyists to influence EU policy directly and without control.
• Introduction of a mandatory EU transparency register and a legally binding code of conduct. This is a response to Qatargate.
• 
Create transparency by requiring EU parliamentarians and officials to disclose their assets and lobbyists to register their meetings with EU employees on a centralized and publicly accessible platform.
Volt Europe	100Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.8 Safety and protection of journalists
• Adopt robust anti-SLAPP (Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Partici- pation) laws to prevent unfounded lawsuits against journalists and thus protect journalists and critical reporting.
• Establish rapid response mechanisms at EU level to protect journalists confronted with threats or violence.
to provide immediate assistance, including legal assistance, temporary relocation or the provision of a security service.
• Strengthening and extending protection for whistleblowers in order to uncover abuses.
Volt Europe	101Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.9 European broadcasting and Television stations
• Support the development of a strong network of European public service broadcasters. This should build on the experience of companies such as EBU, ARTE and 3sat and serve as a forum for all European broadcasters to exchange information and best practices while facilitating the exchange of national content. This will ensure that information is not restricted to certain areas.
• 
Provide financial support to encourage European broadcasters to provide translated content from national services across multiple channels, including radio, television and the internet. This will also enable better coverage of important issues and discussions of European topics.
• Establishment of a European "Netflix" as a European media authority with access to all media supported by public funds in the European Union. Establishment of a TV program under the auspices of this media institution and abolition of geoblocking.
Volt Europe	102Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.10 Transparency, accountability and sound decision-making
• Ensure wider access to public data, which includes statistics, research data, geospatial data and all other types of public data, as well as information on decision- making at all levels of government within the EU, e.g. voting records, debates, financial information and decision-making protocols, unless an exception is required for security or confidentiality reasons.
• Integrate and expand existing open data dashboards and other public information platforms to include the citizen perspective by providing easily accessible tools that are optimized for the user experience.
• 
Harmonization of legislation so that annual reports on private companies published in the commercial registers of member states are available free of charge.
Volt Europe	103Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.11 OpenSourceSoftware
• Release of software components that are financed with public funds. This should be done under a license for free/libre and open source software (FLOSS) to ensure transparency and enable the use and adaptation of the software and its source code by the general public for both private and commercial purposes.
• Open up opportunities for similar initiatives such as the Open Technology Funds, the Open Collective or the Sovereign Tech Fund, which contribute to the financing of open digital technologies, such as widely used open source software, which is an important component in software products and services that many Europeans use.
• Build a financially sustainable ecosystem that reduces our reliance on uncertain, voluntary efforts for key software libraries and infrastructures used by both the public and private sectors.
• 
Treat open source solutions as a decisive factor in the selection of software products for public services and operations, on a par with accessibility, functionality and user-friendliness. In cases where new software components are developed with public funds, the software must be published under a FLOSS license.
• Shifting the liability for open source software components to those who use software commercially (e.g. integrators) and requiring those who benefit most from this use to ensure the CE conformity of the software (with the exception of end users).
Volt Europe	104Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
8.12 Strengthening the Euroregions
• Strengthening Euroregions throughout the EU.
> Recognition that cross-border cooperation is highly diverse in the way it works and is central to shaping a truly federal Europe. Around 30% of people living in the EU live in one of the 152 active Euroregions.
> Place a special focus on bringing the Euroregions closer to national and regional governments.
The current organization of the euroregions shows a differentiation in terms of the goals they try to achieve, the topics they work on, as well as their legal status and funding.
> Develop a policy that makes the organization of funding for these regions more transparent. We want to enable citizens to actively participate in the decision-making processes for Euroregions. A coherent, EU-wide political approach should be promoted.
Volt Europe	105Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
How do we bring these proposals to the European Parliament?
Our legislative package addresses democratic rules for European political parties as well as lobbying regulations, increased citizen participation in political decision-making processes, combating corruption and preventing democratic backsliding by member states, strengthening the protection of journalists and combating disinformation and the illegal disclosure of data. The proposed measures require the adaptation of primary EU legislation. On the basis of the amendment to Article 11 TEU, Volt wants to promote and facilitate citizen participation by reforming the European Citizens' Initiative (ECI). In addition, the procedure under Article 7 TEU, certain rights are an essential part of European democratic laws. For example, the Council can decide to suspend the voting rights of a Member State if it violates EU values. In the case of serious and persistent violations, an accelerated infringement procedure against the violating member state is necessary. This explicitly includes an extension of the aforementioned provision. The existing Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament (Chapter 4, Title I) must be amended to lay down clear rules for campaign financing, individual membership and joint financing. In addition, a legally binding code of conduct for EU politicians should be introduced in order to increase the transparency of
The aim is to increase awareness of the measures taken by EU politicians and the thinking behind them. A refinement of the
existing rules on the regulation of lobbies in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament (2019) and in Articles 11 and 35 is also necessary. In order to combat corruption effectively, Regulation No 883/2013 of the European Union Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) must be amended to give the Office more investigative and enforcement powers.
In addition, the Commission's proposal for the inclusion of an EU ethics body must be implemented by amending Article 13 TEU. Furthermore, a more democratic and transparent Union also requires the protection of journalists, which can be achieved by adopting the proposed directive to combat abusive lawsuits, so-called "SLAPPs". In addition, the Whistleblower Directive (EU) 2019/1937 must be amended in order to offer more protection to whistleblowers who uncover abuses.
EU ethics body
• Although the European Commission has submitted a proposal for the establishment of an interinstitutional ethics body, this proposal lacks ambition. The ethics body should not consist mainly of representatives from different EU institutions, but should be chaired by independent ethics experts and should not only make recommendations, but also be given investigative and sanctioning powers in all areas for which it is responsible in order to simplify ethical regulations,
Volt Europe	106Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
the ethics body should replace other existing EU bodies and thus be an obvious authority on ethical issues.
Combating corruption
• Authorization of OLAF with extended investigative powers in these matters to address issues of financial misconduct.
Lobbying regulations
• Refinement of the existing lobbying rules in the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure and improvement of the criteria in the Transparency Register.
• Introduce measures to deter unchecked access, tighten registration requirements and establish a firm legal framework to ensure ethical behavior.
Safety and protection of journalists
• Revise the proposed SLAPPs (strategic lawsuits against public participation) directive, which targets abusive lawsuits against journalists and human rights defenders. Ensure that the directive contains adequate safeguards to protect individuals and organizations and defend fundamental rights. This includes environmental and climate rights, women's rights, LGB
TIQ rights, disability rights, the rights of ethnic minorities, labor rights and religious freedoms; the directive applies to all persons who are publicly involved in matters of public interest. Volt is actively working at European level to implement these rules.
and will ensure the introduction of further measures to protect the independence of the media at European level.
European broadcasting and Television stations
• Facilitating the exchange of information between national intelligence agencies. In order to achieve the objectives of Articles 165 (education) and 167 (culture) of the TFEU, the EU must, within the framework of the program
"Creative Europe" should take measures to facilitate the exchange of information between national news agencies and channels, including through the translation of national content and the establishment of a European broadcasting platform. The European Broadcasting Corporation should pay particular attention to improving knowledge of European culture, history and diversity. At the same time, it should become a platform for artistic and literary creation and exchange.
Volt Europe	107Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTORAL PROGRAM 2024-2029 MAKING EVERY VOTE COUNT
What expenditure and income do these proposals generate?
The total costs of these measures, which consist of the costs for implementation and the annual costs over five years, amount to € 10,540,000,000. The implementation costs amount to € 1,440,000,000 and the annual costs amount to € 1,820,000,000.
Examples of implementation costs include the development of political and legal frameworks, capacity building and the training of (new) staff, the development of IT or physical infrastructure or public awareness campaigns.
Examples of annual costs include salaries and social benefits, administrative costs, infrastructure maintenance and the costs associated with implementing the proposed measures.
The total costs of the complete election program are listed separately from the total revenue.
Volt Europe	108Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9. Prioritize climate neutrality
We are creating a strong Europe that is fair to people and the environment and safeguards our fragile livelihoods. Climate neutrality is our priority and not a "niceto-have". We are joining forces and skills to build a climate-neutral Europe: by reducing all member states' net emissions of greenhouse gases to zero by 2040. To achieve climate neutrality, we are not only relying on individual responsibility, but are also activating the major levers. This is because the responsibility lies with the perpetrators of the climate crisis, who have profited from climate and environmentally harmful production for years.
The dangers and threats posed by the climate crisis are undeniable. There is clear evidence that man-made climate change is leading to destabilization of weather patterns and the collapse of ecosystems. The human and economic costs of adapting to these negative consequences increase exponentially with each additional degree of global warming. It is widely recognized that the only way to mitigate the climate crisis is to rapidly and completely eliminate greenhouse gas emissions. But despite this clear political imperative, there is a lack of robust and ambitious climate policy, as other interests stand in the way of the transition to climate neutrality. Nevertheless, we must recognize the steps taken in the 2015 Paris Agreement as a diplomatic breakthrough in the fight against the climate crisis. Almost all countries committed to limiting global warming to 2°C and aiming for 1.5°C. This target should be achieved through rigorous and continuously reported Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). On this basis, we can drive forward an ambitious climate agenda and introduce additional aspects into international climate policy. One example of this is the establishment of a fund for loss and damage.
The EU has taken and proposed various measures to achieve net-to-zero emissions by 2050. Most recently, this concerned the "European Green Deal", which
"Fit for 55" legislation. This was a major step forward, but it is still not enough to achieve the climate targets. Volt is strongly c o m m i t t e d to bringing European policy in line with the Paris Agreement. This includes the EU doing its part to meet the 1.5 degree target.
The CO2 reductions that we can achieve by 2030 are crucial and have the highest priority. We will therefore advocate for an additional climate emergency law that aims to achieve the greatest possible CO2 reduction by 2030. Furthermore, the climate crisis is developing in parallel with significant inequalities. The richest 10% of Europeans emit more than three times as much greenhouse gases per capita as the rest. However, those who have contributed the least to the climate crisis are likely to suffer the most.
Volt Europe	109Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.1 Setting ambitious targets to fulfill the Paris Agreement
• Setting a maximum CO2-equivalent
budget for the EU that is in line with the
1.5°C global warming scenario and takes into account both the EU's responsibilities and opportunities. We want to ensure that all legislation is in line with this maximum CO2- equivalent budget.
• Initiation of a legislative package for the climate emergency to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 % by 2030 compared to 2019.
• 
Climate neutrality in energy generation and use by 2035.
• Aiming for net climate neutrality in the EU by 2040.promoting public-private investment via a new EU climate investment platform, which is to be used as a
extension of InvestEU.
• Promotion of the Net-Zero Industry Act through EU funding and provision of greater financial resources to create a level playing field on the global stage.
Volt Europe	111Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.2 Just transition without harmful subsidies
• Extend the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) to negative emissions and cover at least 90% (2021 approx. 40%) of all EU carbon emissions under a single cap by the end of 2025 at the latest. This means that the introduction of the planned ETS 2, which covers buildings, road transport and additional small industries and also includes emissions from industrial livestock farming, must be accelerated. A reduction in the number of certificates (adapted to the scope) in line with Volt's reduction targets is necessary.
• Extension of the Industrial Establishments Directive (IED) to all types of industrial animal husbandry. This refers to farms that keep a number of animals considered relevant by science.
• Introduction of a carbon tax for all sectors in which an extended ETS would cause a disproportionately high administrative burden (e.g.
highly fragmented industries that can hardly be identified in advance).
• Support the final implementation of a robust carbon border adjustment mechanism (CBAM).
• Ensure appropriate taxation of kerosene and other fossil fuels. This is one part of a broader just transition strategy that sets out clear and
provides for comprehensible targets for ending fossil fuel subsidies.
• Maintaining the high proportion of total revenue from the EU ETS that is used for climate and energy-related purposes (estimated at 75% between 2013 and 2021). At the same time, the aim is to ensure that this revenue is also used to support low-income communities and those most affected by the climate crisis. "Carbon dividends", i.e. direct cash payments to citizens, have become established in Switzerland and
in Canada have proven to be successful best practices.
• Ensure that transitions include adaptation strategies that enable communities to increase their adaptive capacity. We strongly advocate consistent and binding measures to adapt to the effects of the climate crisis:
> Strengthening flood protection and coordination of adaptation plans in endangered European coastal areas.
> Expansion of European disaster protection and humanitarian aid in order to be prepared for the increasing number of natural disasters.
Volt Europe	112Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
> Development of a strategy for insurance companies and risk managers that ensures long-term protection assessment and financing of climate-resilient infrastructures.
> Support legally binding agreements for planned climate migration to avoid conflicts and preserve lifestyles.
> Research into the principles of circular economy in policy reforms with a focus on waste reduction, material retention and
Regeneration of natural ecosystems in adaptation plans.
> Support local, national and effective cross-border deposit and loan systems for reusable packaging, bottles and cans, which will eventually be recognized throughout Europe.
• Expansion of the Innovation and Social Climate Fund and targeting of funds towards disadvantaged communities and innovative industries.
Volt Europe	113Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.3 Disclosing sustainability and strengthening consumer rights
• Ensure transparent reporting on all climate- relevant external effects of products and services to enable consumers to make more sustainable decisions.
• Expansion of the directive on sustainability reporting by companies to include an end- consumer component. This should oblige companies to create transparency for individual products and services with regard to the greenhouse gas footprint, recyclability, environmental impact and other metrics at the point of sale.
• 
Creation of an EU-wide sustainability index, similar to the existing indices for the efficiency of household appliances and houses, which takes into account the overall environmental footprint of products and rates it on a simple scale that reflects their impact in terms of sustainability.
• Enforce the use of this objective sustainability index as one of the criteria for all public contracts in the Member States.
Volt Europe	114Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.4 Holistic climate policy
• Integrate climate mitigation and adaptation considerations into all areas of policy making to ensure consistency and coordination on all aspects of the climate crisis that affect our lives.
• Improving cross-sectoral cooperation, accelerating the adoption of climate-related legislation and applying a risk management approach to climate policy.
• 
Greater consideration of the impact on vulnerable communities and inclusion of emergency strategies in long-term measures.
Volt Europe	115Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.5 Negative emissions strategy
• Commitment to a climate-neutral economy by 2040 (energy sector by 2035) with the aim of achieving a negative emissions capacity. The protection, restoration and growth of natural carbon sinks, which are essential for achieving this goal, are to be ensured:
> Increased efforts for sustainable forest management, restoration and reforestation.
> Commitment to the conservation and restoration of wetlands.
> Replace current subsidies for unsustainable agricultural practices with subsidies to encourage the rapid adoption of known or developing environmentally friendly practices (e.g. perennial agricultural production systems and polyculture).
> Promote the diversification of plant species that have a very high carbon sequestration per unit area and time and are a source of sustainable raw materials for a variety of value-added products, such as hemp and bamboo.
> 
Increase the number of protected wildlife areas in accordance with the UN Biodiversity Plan.
> Improve the protection and health of European waterways and develop a coherent strategy for the use of scientific knowledge, transnational cooperation and the creation of appropriate economic incentives.
• Initiation of large-scale European research programs on artificial and biological methods of carbon sequestration.
• End harmful subsidies and ensure appropriate taxation of fossil fuels.
Volt Europe	116Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.6 Low-CO2 transport sector
• Strengthening and expanding the rail system in Europe, as more than 20% of CO2 emissions in the EU come from transportation, whether from road transport (72% of the total) or air transport (14%), while rail only accounts for 0.4% of carbon emissions. Here we propose
> Harmonization of infrastructure throughout Europe, in particular with regard to the European Train Control System (ETCS), platform height, track gauge and the approval of rail vehicles.
> Proposal for substantial EU-wide investments and subsidies at all levels of rail transport. This includes integrated long and medium distance networks for freight and passenger transport, a European high-speed rail network (HSR) and regional and local public transport. National and international night train services must be expanded and improved as a convenient alternative to air travel.
• Providing the proposed European Transport Agency (ETA, see "Act for a prosperous coexistence") with advisory legislative powers and financial resources. In this way, we want to monitor investments in the infrastructure of international high-speed trains throughout Europe and promote innovation and sustainability in the aviation and shipping industry.
• Promotion and subsidization of an EU- wide MaaS platform (Mobility as a Service)
service) with the aim of offering seamless, affordable and environmentally friendly transportation options that make it easier to move away from private car ownership.
• Ban on the use of fossil fuels in road vehicles by 2035. This does not include a ban on the sale or use of combustion engines as long as they are powered by biofuels or synthetic fuels.
• Abolition of tax exemptions for aviation fuel and increased e f f o r t s to achieve net-zero emissions in European, international and national aviation by 2040 by the Advisory Council on Aviation (ACARE).
Volt Europe	117Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.7 Renewable energy systems
• Promoting changes in the energy supply mix and implementing alternative and carbon- free energy sources. The transition to a sustainable European system and the complete decarbonization of the energy system should be achieved by 2035.
> Promote the complete phase-out of coal combustion by 2030 (lignite by 2025) and ban new permits for drilling for fossil fuels and immediately stop flaring. It should also be ensured that 80 % of all known fossil fuel reserves remain in the ground. Advertising for fossil fuel products should be banned, similar to the example of cigarette advertising.
> Promotion of a diversified portfolio of renewable energy sources (RE). In order to enable a mix of intermittent and complementary sustainable energy sources, research into the conversion of ocean thermal energy, tidal and wave energy, residual heat from industry, biomass and new concepts for solar and wind energy should be promoted alongside research into geothermal energy. We particularly want to promote research in the field of alternative technologies. This includes low-carbon and pioneering technologies.
such as sustainable chemistry concepts, bio-based solutions and concepts for the conversion of organic and organic waste.
plastic waste i n t o fuels. A particular focus here is on large-scale applications.promoting functional and efficient systems for the use of renewable energies by counteracting the increased volatility on the generation side caused by the fundamental changes in the energy supply mix. To this end, the following flexibility measures should be introduced:
> Exploiting flexibility on the demand side by promoting the necessary technical solutions (digital monitoring and control systems) and business models (e.g. aggregation-based models such as virtual power plants).
> Use of storage solutions to utilize short-term (intraday) to long-term (seasonal) flexibility.
> Promoting the intelligent planning and operation of infrastructures to improve the connection between
The aim is to create a single point of generation and consumption in order to utilize the flexibility of a large interconnected system, eliminating existing sectoral silos and strengthening cross-sectoral connections (electricity, gas, heating and cooling, mobility, waste, water). This is to be achieved through technologies, business, regulatory and governance models in line with
with the EU strategy for the integration of the energy system in order to achieve the decarbonization of the entire energy system.
Volt Europe	118Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
Develop a differentiated European strategy that prioritizes decarbonization, ensures safety, introduces a concept for nuclear waste management and promotes research and development, taking advantage of long-term opportunities:
> Existing reactors should continue to be operated in their current form until the agreed end of their life cycle. The aim is to ensure that lifetime extensions are only permitted if, firstly, all safety regulations applicable at the time of the decision are met.
secondly, long-term operation is at the full cost of the operators, thirdly, the state of the art at the time of the assessment is achieved and fourthly, the reactor is needed to ensure climate neutrality.
> Construction and operation of already approved reactors within the scope of the contractual obligations agreed in each case.
> 
Approval of new reactors if they are proven to be inherently safe (no active safety systems required to bring operation to a safe shutdown state) and robust against external influences.
> Promote research and support the introduction of advanced nuclear fission and fusion concepts such as thorium cycles, molten salt, liquid metal, Gen4, fast breeder or small modular reactors.
> Promote the development of new infrastructure that enables the production of millions of tons of low- carbon hydrogen by 2040. This can contribute to the decarbonization of the European
industry and transportation systems, without affecting them financially.
> Replacing the use of natural gas in households with as much biogas as possible in the short and medium term. Biogas should be produced in the EU using innovative methods and transported to households via the same gas transmission infrastructure. We want to introduce price caps for EU biogas.
Volt Europe	119Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.8 Improved electricity market
• The electricity market is to be reformed to ensure more effective support for a successful transition to renewable energies. energies can become possible. This means that
> Ensure that the original objectives of the market can also be achieved through a different or improved market design.
> Ensuring a high degree of market competition on the supply side through effective unbundling regulations and making it easier for consumers to switch providers.
> Guarantee that there are sufficient incentives for investment in new generation and infrastructure facilities required for the introduction of renewable energy systems.
> Maintaining effective economic use of generation and flexibility resources to meet energy demand at all times. To make this possible, cross-border trading capacity should be increased and more dynamic trading should be enabled (e.g. by reducing
minimum product quantities and trading hours).
> Improve the approach to incorporate the new market objectives and incentivize the introduction and effective operation of flexibility mechanisms (storage and
demand-side management). We want to introduce established central markets and decentralized market- oriented solutions that enable the introduction and operation of instruments for the locally required flexibility (e.g. local flexibility markets, aggregator business models).
> Consideration of the new framework conditions, which are primarily determined by three factors: Decentralization (redistribution and fragmentation of generation and flexibility resources), digitalization (improved monitoring and control) and democratization (more energy resources at the citizen and local level, empowering these local actors to participate more actively in energy systems).
• Propose a transitional period to take account of the complexity of identifying and implementing such far-reaching reform measures. We want to introduce short-term, possibly temporary measures to address issues where there is an urgent need for action. The general approach adopted by the Commission and endorsed by the Council should be followed:
> Improve investment conditions for renewable energy sources by expanding the use of contracts for difference and promoting the introduction of power purchase agreements.
Volt Europe	120Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
> Improving security of supply by abolishing the temporary character of capacity mechanisms.
> Strengthening consumer protection by protecting consumers from price spikes and promoting competition in the retail sector.
Volt Europe	121Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.9 Resilience of the energy system and security of supply
• Reassess the scope and standards of the resilience of Europe's energy systems and security of supply. By doing so, we want to achieve the following:
> Ensure that the improved European resource adequacy assessments adequately incorporate new options to ensure resource adequacy. These include storage and demand-side management. The unequal adequacy between bidding zones due to structural constraints in the transmission networks must be adequately taken into account.
> 
Prioritize measures to ensure the adequacy of resources that reduce dependence on regions outside the EU.
> Promote resilience standards over absolute security standards for the digital infrastructure of the energy system, building on the EU Action Plan for the Digitalization of the Energy System.
Volt Europe	122Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.10 Energy sources with low CO2 emissions
• Removal of complicated regulatory hurdles when issuing permits for new low-carbon energy plants. This can currently take several years. A quick conclusion,
which is provided for in the EU Directive, must be driven forward.
> Streamlining and harmonizing administrative procedures and reducing bureaucratic complexity.
> Improve the administrative framework for issuing permits and support capacity building to increase efficiency and effectiveness.
> Identify and share best practice information to promote mutual learning and optimize approval processes.
> Facilitating spatial planning through the creation of zone maps for low-carbon energy and the implementation of participatory processes to ensure sustainable land use.
> 
Strengthening public engagement by empowering communities to participate in low-carbon energy development, as well as the participation of low-income and vulnerable households.
> Improvement of the certification and validation procedures for nuclear energy plants and their generalization for all EU countries that have nuclear energy in their program. This will avoid unnecessary duplication of identical procedures in different countries.
> Facilitate and coordinate European initiatives for the full recycling of used nuclear fuel and accelerate the introduction of technologies for the recycling of nuclear waste. This will significantly reduce the volume of nuclear waste and the time it needs to be stored.
Volt Europe	123Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.11 Energy communities and decentralized energy systems
• Harmonization of national regulations that enable consumers to actively participate in all energy markets, either individually or as part of energy communities. This would enable activities such as generation,
consumption, the shared use and sale of electricity and the provision of flexibility services through demand response and storage solutions. This should increase the acceptance of
promote energy communities and facilitate the integration of citizens into the electricity system as active participants.
• Ensure that Member States have equal access to available support programs so that their playing field is level with that of larger participants.
Volt Europe	124Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
9.12 Sustainable buildings
• Promoting the replacement of individual heating and cooling systems powered by fossil fuels with alternatives such as renewable electric heating systems, heat pumps and solar water heating.
• Promoting better energy efficiency (e.g. insulation, energy-saving appliances, changes in behavior) and the use of sustainable materials in the construction or renovation of buildings.
• Definition of standards for nearly zero energy buildings (nZEB) for all new buildings in the EU by 2030 and net zero emissions for all buildings (including the existing building stock) by 2035.
• Development of standards for resource- efficient designs and integrated construction processes. The efficiency of building design is to be measured on the basis of annual energy consumption and the carbon footprint of the entire construction process (distinction between "operating carbon" and "embodied carbon").
We want to promote the mapping of buildings through continuous energy performance data in order to build consensus on the importance of sustainable design and construction. access to an accurate measurement of the "Whole Life Carbon" of the entire life cycle of buildings.
• Enable owners of residential and office buildings to make the necessary investments. To this end, we want to harmonize and increase public financing and offer direct low-interest financing through the European Investment Bank (EIB). Citizens should be made aware of and involved in the possibilities of green buildings and promote the development of an appropriately sized and well-qualified retrofitting industry through training, labor mobility and the exchange of best practices.
Volt Europe	125Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
How do we bring these proposals to the European Parliament?
The Volt Climate Transformation Act affects the directives and regulations that fall under the "European Great Deal" initiatives,
"Net Zero Emissions by 2050" and the "Just Transition Mechanism". In the chapter, we have advocated climate neutrality in various areas of climate policy, decarbonization, energy transition and sustainable development. This involves changes to the following three key legal instruments: Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 on EU climate law, Directive (EU) 2018/2001 on the Renewable Energy Directive II and Directive (EU) 2022/2464 on corporate sustainability reporting.
At the same time, the measures relate to others that fall under the aforementioned initiatives.
The proposed measures have an impact on existing legislation. This is because they propose new, innovative measures that can resolve key problems. For example, Regulation (EU) 2021/1119
on EU climate law should be amended to take greater account of the wide disparities in greenhouse gas emissions within Europe, as these are clear inequalities (i.e. the richest 10% emit more than three times as much per capita as the poorest 10%).
much than any other). At the same time, Volt recognizes Directive (EU) 2018/2001 on the Renewable Energy Directive II and adds to the already existing legislation the idea that decarbonization should not only take place at the production level, but also at the consumption level and across global supply chains. Only a few measures have an impact on Directive (EU) 2022/2464 on corporate sustainability reporting, as the articles drafted should focus more on the possibilities of green technologies. In particular, this relates to economic growth, job creation, the transition to a green economy and climate policy.
Volt Europe	126Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
What expenditure and income do these proposals generate?
The total costs of this law, which are made up of the implementation costs and the annual costs over five years, amount to € 446,782,500,000.
The implementation costs amount to
€261,430,000,000 and the annual costs to
€37,070,500,000.
Examples of implementation costs include the development of political and legal frameworks, capacity building and the training of (new) staff, the development of IT or physical infrastructure or public awareness campaigns.
Examples of annual costs include salaries and social benefits, administrative costs, infrastructure maintenance and the costs associated with implementing the proposed measures.
The total costs of the complete election program are listed separately from the total revenue.
Volt Europe	127Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10. Healthy ecosystems
The environmental crisis we are facing goes beyond the climate crisis. It i n c l u d e s widespread pollution, the depletion of biodiversity and the destruction of our natural habitats. These problems are not isolated. They are caused by our unsustainable production and consumption patterns and the overstepping of our planet's natural limits.
To tackle these complex environmental challenges effectively, we need a comprehensive "One Health" approach and the involvement of all stakeholders. Tackling the climate crisis is inextricably linked to the preservation of vital natural ecosystems that serve as carbon reservoirs and the basis of our food supply. Furthermore, the destruction of these ecosystems makes us more vulnerable to increasing natural disasters such as floods and forest fires, which are already increasing at an alarming rate. Recognizing this would be the first step in a responsible policy.
Our actions have an impact on the health of the planet. At the same time, it is closely linked to human health. Increasing environmental pollution - from air pollution to soil and ocean contamination - is taking an ever greater toll on our wellbeing and placing an additional burden on our already overstretched healthcare systems.
We must no longer exploit the world and our ecosystems at all costs. But politicians are encouraging this with subsidies for harmful and polluting activities such as factory farming, deforestation, the excessive use of antimicrobials, overfishing and unsustainable consumption patterns. This makes it clear to us: we must act immediately. We must recognize that a harmonious coexistence of nature and humans is the only way for life to continue on this planet. We therefore believe that EU funds should focus on financing desirable practices and abolishing harmful subsidies and measures. We need to empower consumers to make more sustainable choices and promote circular consumption patterns to protect our natural world and its ecosystems. At the same time, other actors within the food chain must also be involved.
The first step towards more sustainable agriculture is crucial for the transition to a green economy. Of course, this is done in close cooperation with farmers. Small and medium-sized farmers' businesses are put under pressure by exploitative trade relations. This is reflected in the decline
of agricultural businesses in Europe. Reforms are urgently needed here. We want to offer farmers a better basis for their livelihoods, improve cooperation
Volt Europe	128Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
between generations and boost the local economy. Rewarding farmers who work in harmony with nature is essential to creating a green future and securing an independent Europe. The need for change also extends to our forest and marine policies.
Together, these measures promote the development of resilient and sustainable communities. This is because they ensure that communities are equipped with accessible green spaces that enhance human well-being, improve animal welfare and combat antimicrobial resistance. This leads to the intertwining o f	human, animal and environmental health, benefiting public health, the well-being of present and future generations and all living organisms on this planet.
Volt Europe	129Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.1 Nature Restoration Act
• Adapt the Nature Restoration Law (NRL) to environmental science, also taking into account the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines on air pollution, green spaces in residential areas, chemicals and noise, and set ambitious targets for all natural areas in need of restoration:
> Rewetting of at least 30 %
of peatlands in the EU by 2030.
> Conversion of at least 10 % of urban areas into green and blue areas (open streams, rivers, ponds and lakes) by 2040 and at least 15 % by 2050 and their legal protection.
> Extension of the NRL to the habitats of fish species that are in a critical state.
> At least 10 % of every farm is to be used for nature restoration by 2030.
> 
Pursuing a One Health approach by following the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines involves maintaining strict air quality standards that ensure the right and freedom of all people to breathe clean air and limiting long-term exposure to pollutants such as PM2.5 and NO2 across Europe by ensuring that levels do not exceed 5 µg/m³ PM2.5 and 10 µg/ m³ NO2.
> Enforcing a comprehensive ban on chemicals that are proven to harm human health and the environment is of crucial importance.
Volt Europe	130Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.2 Ecosystems of the oceans
• Discontinuation of the use of fishing gear that has undesirable negative impacts on ecosystems, such as the destruction of corals and the capture of unintended species (bycatch), as well as a ban on destructive practices such as bottom trawling, starting in marine protected areas (MPAs). Also the abolition of harmful subsidies, in particular the exemption from fuel tax.
• Adaptation of fishing quotas to the recommendations of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES), which will officially accompany the decision-making process. We therefore call for transparency and accountability to apply to non-public Council meetings at which Member States' final quotas are set (which often exceed the recommended limits).
• Support small-scale fisheries through fair incentives under the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP). The aim is to enable it to participate effectively in the political decision-making process, as it plays an important role in the livelihoods of coastal communities and the local economy and is known to have a lower environmental impact than large-scale fishing.
• Support strong mechanisms and deterrent penalties to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing. In this context, effective cooperation with third countries to restore marine stocks and protect MPAs is also crucial.
• 
Only support sustainable aquaculture. EU funds may only be used for truly sustainable aquaculture practices. In parallel, policy measures will aim to bring general food consumption to a sustainable level.
• Strengthen legislation on aquaculture and its effluents and wastes to avoid disruptive nutrient gradients and promote a sustainable, circular and biodiversity-friendly form o f aquaculture.
• Creation of an action plan to promote the sustainable production of algae and to promote the innovative use of products made with this protein. Europe consumes large quantities of algae, but 97% of the world's production comes from Asia. There is a clear opportunity for strategic auto nomy that can be fulfilled by creating realistic conditions for the algae sector to take off, including funding, investment in R&D and increasing consumer awareness and acceptance of algae products in the EU.
• Support for green hydrogen-powered fishing vessels to reduce dependence on fossil fuels.
Volt Europe	131Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.3 Restoration of forests
• Promotion of natural carbon storage through increased efforts for sustainable forest management,
-restoration and reforestation. Agricultural and forestry practices should focus on reducing emissions and preserving the landscape. The aim is to restore carbon stocks in Europe to pre-industrial levels and combat desertification.
• Commitment to the conservation and restoration of wetlands. We want to focus on peatlands (which can store twice as much carbon as forests) by imposing an immediate moratorium on peat extraction. This should continue until the legal regulations have been tightened. In this way, we want to ensure the protection of the areas and their sustainable management. At the same time, we want to promote the active restoration of the natural state of already exploited peatlands.
• 
Improving the protection and health of European waterways.
We want to achieve this by updating the Water Framework Directive (WFD) and the Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) and accelerating their implementation, as only 40% of the surface water bodies examined by the European Environment Agency (EEA) in 2018 were in good ecological status.
• Creation of an EU-wide action plan for the forestry sector. This is intended to support an ecosystem-based approach to forest management, as it is possible and necessary to reconcile nature conservation with the commercial use of forest resources. This approach aims to respect the natural cycle of forests as much as possible, contribute to the protection and restoration of forests in the EU and provide forest owners with a more sustainable source of income.
Volt Europe	132Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.4 Social reform of the common agricultural policy
• Support for more in-depth monitoring of the EU food market, as food is an essential commodity. This should protect consumers and ensure stable and fair prices for farmers. The aim is to create a framework for fair individual trade agreements, a mechanism for local and direct sales regulations and improved anti-dumping measures and monitoring. This should include an examination of competition and pricing practices. Small and medium-sized farms face particular challenges due to exploitative relationships with retailers, corporate control and WTO pricing issues. They are confronted with high production costs and long-standing CAP policies that prevent fairness and sustainability.
• Support the establishment of local agricultural cooperatives in order to stabilize food prices, guarantee farmers a stable and fair income and promote local supply chains. We want to define guidelines for the Member States to promote the establishment of agricultural cooperatives at national level. At the same time, an EU-wide public platform for knowledge and information for consumers and producers should be established.
• Adopt EU-wide measures to reduce production costs for farmers and the additional price that consumers pay for healthier and more sustainable food.
pay for more sustainable food. We want to achieve this by rebalancing production subsidies in the common agricultural policy.
• Simplify bureaucratic procedures and increase transparency for recipients of CAP funds, especially for small and medium-sized farms. We want to achieve this by providing access to a central and intuitive EU platform for the exchange of knowledge and advice on procedures, rights and obligations, agricultural practices and the submission of documents. We want to work together with the relevant national ministries to achieve this.
• Training of the staff of the relevant national ministries so that they can help farmers with their questions appropriately.
• Adequate support for small and medium- sized farms and stronger incentives for young farmers to stay in business. This should also benefit new entrants, especially women*, in order to ensure the generational succession of farmers. The annual direct payment framework of the member states for generational renewal measures is to be increased from 3% to 6%.
• Development of a sub-program for trainees, newcomers or agriculture in general, for exchange within the framework of Erasmus, which focuses on sustainable agricultural practices.
Volt Europe	133Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.5 Environmental reform of the common agricultural policy
• Abolition of subsidies for environmentally harmful agricultural practices and payments per hectare of land. These funds should be allocated to desirable agricultural practices. In doing so, we want to support the transition to a regenerative farming model that strongly promotes sustainable and organic food, the restoration of soil health, the reduction of pesticides, sustainable water and land use, the reversal of biodiversity loss and animal welfare. Guidance and financial support for farmers during this transition period must be guaranteed to ensure their stability and income.
• Promote rural development models that stimulate local supply chains by harmonizing overarching policy areas. For example, an effective transport system provides incentives for people to move to rural areas and supports farmers and local supply chains. The green agricultural transition also offers opportunities for the repopulation of rural areas as it creates new green jobs and attracts skilled young people.
• Creating incentives to reduce the number of animals kept, while at the same time limiting meat imports and adjusting the demand for meat through accompanying measures. Agriculture is responsible for
10.3 % of greenhouse gas emissions in the EU, 70 % of these
emissions come from the livestock sector. We need "less but better quality" meat if we want to return to a sustainable level of consumption and at the same time maintain the profitability of
f a r m s .
• Support research and development for innovative green energy-powered farming systems such as vertical farming and hydroponics in urban areas to ensure more sustainable and shorter food supply chains.
• Promote precision farming and farm automation where appropriate to reduce dependence on inputs (such as water and pesticides) and make agricultural practices environmentally sustainable. Promote cross-generational renewal of farmers by recruiting highly qualified people.
• Establishment of a fund for the green transition in agriculture that enables farmers to receive low-interest loans and state liability for adapting to the green transition.
transition to make it easier for farmers to meet sustainability requirements. Promote habitat restoration, conservation and biodiversity-friendly agriculture and exclude greenwashing measures.
Volt Europe	134Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
• Underpinning the next reform of the Common Agricultural Policy with an ambitious and science-based action plan that shows how the sector needs to change in the coming years to ensure its overall sustainability. Reducing the burden that frequent and incomplete rule updates place on the stability and income of farmers, with the aim of a science-based CAP.
• 
Support further research and the eventual inclusion of genetically modified crops in the production portfolio of European farmers. These techniques should be used to promote resilience to the climate crisis and ensure the sustainability of food production and agricultural practices.
Volt Europe	135Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.6 Ecological and Sustainable agriculture
• Support the European Commission's goal of reducing the use of chemical pesticides by 50% by 2030 while promoting the spread of integrated pest management (IPM) practices to reduce the need for pesticides and support other agro-ecological practices.
• Increased financial incentives under the common agricultural policy for the conversion of farms in order to achieve the Green Deal target of 25% organic farmland by 2030.
• 
Use of the "eco-schemes" of the common agricultural policy, many of the proposed agro-ecological measures of which meet the requirements of organic farming. Organic farmland accounted for only 9.1% of the EU's total agricultural area in 2020 (5.8% in 2012), meaning that the EU will only reach 15% organic farmland by 2031 if growth continues at the same rate as 2012-2020.
Volt Europe	136Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.7 Healthy and sustainable nutrition
• Harmonization of European policy to switch to a healthy diet. This should be rich in plant-based foods and contain less animal- based foods. This has a positive effect on health and the environment. An EU action plan should shape our food system and
habits to meet nutritional and environmental science recommendations, as Denmark has recently done. Subsidies and consumption targets should be adjusted to increase the proportion of plant-based foods and reduce the proportion of animal proteins.
• Adaptation of market mechanisms for better access and more favorable prices for plant proteins along the food chain. This should create a level playing field for these foodstuffs. We want to realign the common agricultural policy to favor products that are less emission-intensive than foods of animal origin.
• EU-wide measures under the Common Agricultural Policy to reduce the cost of healthy and sustainable food, including plant-based food.
• Binding EU guidelines on green procurement for public catering services (including
of the EU institutions). The guidelines set targets for the weekly availability (and often exclusivity) of plant-based dishes, food waste and organic content. Resources for the corresponding training of chefs are to be created.
• Increase funding for research and the development of healthy plant-based alternatives, as this sector is still largely underfunded compared to animal alternatives.
• Restriction of EU marketing aid to foods that we should consume more of according to nutritional and environmental science.
• Expand the "EU School Programs for Fruit, Vegetables and Milk" to include healthy plant-based alternatives to milk. In this way, we want to cater for children with allergies, other preferences or ethical concerns and promote a more sustainable diet. Increase EU R&D investment in cultured meat, seafood and other animal products and other relevant food technologies to accelerate their research and development. This can be crucial to making our food system more environmentally sustainable.
Volt Europe	137Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.8 Strengthening consumer rights
• Uniform and mandatory labeling of foodstuffs with regard to origin and production methods. The same applies to processed food and meals sold in public establishments and restaurants. For animal products, including processed products, rearing, transport and slaughter conditions must be classified and labeled as mandatory. The same applies to the nutritional value of foodstuffs.
• Introduction of an EU-wide quality label (with a points system) for the eco- logical sustainability of products, including food. Environmental parameters such as carbon emissions, pesticide use and air pollution are taken into account.
• 
Sustainability, recyclability and circular economy information for textiles to reduce waste, promote a circular economy and incentivize eco-friendly designs.
• Promotion of organic and regenerative agriculture through communication campaigns to attract more consumers and new farmers. These are financed, for example, via the
EU funding programs.
Volt Europe	138Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.9 Animal welfare on farms
• Revision of the current EU animal welfare legislation, which is scientifically outdated, excludes many farm animal species and is inadequately enforced:
> Inclusion of species-specific and scientific laws covering all animals bred or kept by humans, including aquatic animals.
> Abolition of long-distance transportation of animals to non-EU countries and introduction of strict limits within the EU based on species-specific and scientifically justified minimum standards. Instead, we are in favor of the transport of meat/carcasses and genetic material and the promotion of local and mobile slaughterhouses. We want to introduce a strict and transparent monitoring and reporting system in order to effectively identify, prevent and sanction violations.
> End fur production in the EU and ban imports of fur products from third countries.
> 
Abolition of the keeping of animals in individual cages in agriculture.
> Prohibition of shredding and gassing of male chicks and transition to technologies that determine sex before hatching. Sex determination in the womb is already being introduced in some Member States.
> Immediate ban on the routine docking of pigs' tails, which is still routinely carried out in most Member States 15 years after an EU-wide ban came into force. Severe sanctions are imposed for non- compliance.
> Ban on the breeding of fast-growing breeds for reasons of profitability. This leads to suffering and health problems for the animals.
> Introduction of mandatory video surveillance in slaughterhouses to improve enforcement of animal welfare regulations.
Volt Europe	139Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.10 General animal welfare
• Ban on the breeding and use of wild animals for entertainment purposes. This includes use in circuses, bullfights and similar events, aquariums/dolphinariums and zoos. A transitional period is to be granted during which the facilities can adapt their business and bring the wild animals used for entertainment purposes together with rescue centers.
• Combating the illegal pet trade in the EU. We want to implement legal provisions for the licensing and registration of pet breeders. At the same time, we are committed to the development of a
EU database for the mandatory registration (e.g. by microchip) of pets (e.g. dogs, cats and ferrets).
• EU-wide ban on the breeding of physically impaired domestic animal breeds with chronic health and animal welfare problems.
• 
Increase funding for research into alternatives to animal testing. To this end, a roadmap with clear targets for the reduction, improvement and replacement of animal testing should be drawn up. The EU must do more to meet its commitments on the use of animals in scientific experiments. Over 10 million animals are still tested every year.
• Regulation of the trade in exotic pets through an EU-wide positive list. This serves to protect biodiversity, human health and the health of other animals. The list specifies exactly which animal species may be traded as pets.
• Inclusion of animal welfare in the job title of the responsible EU Commissioner in order to increase institutional accountability and emphasize the importance of the issue.
Volt Europe	140Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.11 Antibiotic resistance
• Development of an EU-wide binding and scientifically based system for the use of antibiotics in human medicine. First-line therapy must be defined uniformly for certain diseases. This will restrict the use of antibiotics in cases where they are not necessary.
• Regulations that only permit the use of antibiotics in the veterinary sector in emergencies.
• Expansion of ongoing R&D initiatives for new treatment approaches and medical technology.
• 
Reducing the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry:
> Reduction in the number of animals of different origins in a herd (e.g.
B. calf rearing). Resistance occurs are particularly common.
> Support initiatives to reduce intensive livestock farming.
> A greater diversity of animal breeds must be maintained in order to prevent the occurrence and spread of diseases and to build up more resistant herds.
> EU-wide education and training programs for farmers on the use of antimicrobial agents.
Volt Europe	141Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.12 Pricing
• Ensuring that the EU Emissions Trading System (ETS) includes land use, land use change and forestry (LULUCF). Each Member State is treated as an individual emitter. The control is carried out at EU level, whereby the individual Member States can take their respective circumstances into account and pursue their own strategy.
• Taxing agricultural emissions from livestock farming and land use at source, as they are local and fragmented. Other non-sector- specific emissions in the agricultural sector (such as electricity and tractor fuels) are to be covered by the ETS. This takes place in processing or at the consumer level.
• 
Extension of the ETS system to livestock farming, as pollution in this sector must also be taken into account.
• Extension of the Industrial Establishments Directive (IED) to all types of industrial livestock farming. This refers to farms that keep a number of animals considered relevant by the scientific community.
Volt Europe	142Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
10.13 Transparency, monitoring and reporting
• Expansion of the Climate-ADAPT platform into an EU-wide harmonized real
The EU's climate emergency response and decision support system, as it currently only serves as a knowledge base for data and best practices to mitigate and adapt to the climate crisis. Establish an early warning system for extreme weather events and create an interface with the European Emergency Response Coordination Center and national governments to coordinate public aid.
• 
Establish a comprehensive assessment system for monitoring ecosystem health and resilience that identifies areas in need of restoration. Application to all EU territories and visualization via an interactive map that contains regularly updated data and is publicly available online. Link this assessment system to the Climate-ADAPT platform.
Volt Europe	143Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
How do we bring these proposals to the European Parliament?
The Healthy Ecosystems Act affects the directives and regulations that fall under the European Green Deal, Air Quality and Pollution Control, Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), Common Fisheries Policy (CFP), Circular Economy and One Health Approach initiatives. The package of measures relates to the improvement of air quality, the reduction of pollution, sustainable agriculture and waste management and the interlinking of human, animal and environmental health. It requires amendments to the following legal instruments: Directive 2008/50/EC on ambient air quality and cleaner air for Europe, Industrial Emissions Directive (2010/75/EU), Waste Framework Directive (2008/98/EC), Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive (94/62/EC).
We call for a special focus on the interconnected environmental challenges. We recognize that tackling the climate crisis is inextricably linked to the preservation of vital ecosystems (e.g. carbon sinks, food supply). As such, we are pushing for changes to the articles that address these issues under Directive 2008/50/EC on air quality and climate change.
clean air for Europe. In addition, the Industrial Emissions Directive (2010/75/EU) must make a stronger call to move away from exploitative activities and unsustainable consumption.
Finally, it should protect natural resources, reverse biodiversity loss, mitigate the climate crisis and promote resilient and sustainable communities that improve human, animal and environmental health. In doing so, we promote things that benefit current and future generations and the entire ecosystem. The Waste Framework Directive (2008/98/EC) and the Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive (94/62/EC) call for more attention to be paid to reversing biodiversity loss and promoting sustainable communities. This is to be achieved by reducing pollution from waste production and disposal. We support a revision of existing animal welfare legislation, including Council Directive 98/58/EC on the protection of animals. We are also committed to harmonizing the law on the restoration of nature and environmental science.
Volt Europe	144Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029 A PLANET WORTH LIVING ON
What expenditure and income do these proposals generate?
The total costs of these measures, which are made up of the implementation costs and the annual costs over five years, amount to
€1,015,000,000.
The	implementation	costs	amount	to
€115,000,000 and the annual costs to
€180,000,000.
Examples of implementation costs include the development of political and legal frameworks, capacity building and the training of (new) staff, the development of IT or physical infrastructure or public awareness campaigns.
Examples of annual costs include salaries and social benefits, administrative costs, infrastructure maintenance and the costs associated with implementing the proposed measures.
The total costs of the complete election program are listed separately from the total revenue.
Volt Europe	145Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024-2029
Total expenditure and revenue through the proposals of the European Electoral Program
The total costs of the election program, which are made up of the implementation costs and
the annual costs over five years, amount to € 5,452,156,000,000. The implementation costs amount to € 2,092,589,000,000 and the annual costs to € 671,913,400,000.
Examples of implementation costs include the development of political and legal frameworks, capacity building and the training of (new) staff, the development of IT or physical infrastructure or public awareness campaigns.
Examples of annual costs include salaries and social benefits, administrative costs, infrastructure maintenance and the costs associated with implementing the proposed measures.
The total revenue from the implementation of the election program amounts to € 5,452,156,141,973. This results in a positive Total income of € 141,973 over five years. The income will be generated over five years by the following proposals:
Increasing the EU budget
1.534.714.285.714 €
Increase in the Horizon Europe budget
191.034.000.000 €
Proposed taxation of carbon emissions € 450,000,000,000
Proposed taxation of digital services € 625,000,000,000
Proposed taxation of non- sustainable consumption € 125,000,000,000
Proposed taxation of assets € 100,000,000,000
Proposed taxation
of kerosene and fossil fuels
2.426.407.856.259 €
It should be noted that revenues from the taxation of carbon emissions and the taxation of kerosene and other fossil fuels are likely to decrease over time as the proposals aim to reduce the use of fossil fuels. Even without these revenues, the proposals remain financially viable as the implementation costs are not recurring.
Volt Europe	146Volt Germany | Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
European election program 2024-2029
Head of PolicyTeam Volt Europe
Claudio Lanza,
Inês Bravo Figueiredo
Head of the election program team
Poland Turkmen, Noah von Heimendahl
Election program team Janko Heineken, Sarah Tegas, Kate Fistric, Charlotte Barsky, Ronan Kerleo, Stefanos Tyros, Teun Janssen, Clara Panella Gómez, Janne Gerrits, Christiaan Meinsma, Sascha Mann, Carlo Gaillard, Theo Doreleijers, Michael Eichelbeck, Diana Andrei, Rhia Lopes, Philipp Decking, Jelmer van der Ende, Veronika Vancheri, Bram Vandeninden, Brieuc Hallouët, Anica Nerlich
Volt Germany
Choriner Str. 34 | 10435 Berlin
Legal department
Mathea Essinger, Diana Andrei, Kremena Ganeva, Lara Steer
Finances
Benjamin F.A.C. Ector
Proofreading
Luís Almeida Fernandes
General meeting
Maartje Huernink
Assistance
Alessia Utano, Mrinalini Fauzdar
voltdeutschland.org
FUTURE MADE IN
EUROPE





Subscribe to DeepL Pro to translate larger documents.
Visit www.DeepL.com/pro for more information.
THINK BIG: for a racism-free 
and just Europe!
4 "A "*4
'ti/* '*<
European election program 2024
2
Table of contents
Preamble 3
Migration and refugee policy 4
Reform of the Dublin system: faster decisions, fairer distribution 4
Internal security: strengthening borders, reducing fears 4
Immigration: promoting participation, ensuring equal opportunities 5
Causes of flight: Prevent isolation, create safe living conditions 5
Anti-discrimination policy 6
Equal opportunities: quotas for women and early childhood development 6
Anti-discrimination: better protection for victims, consistent punishment for perpetrators6
Social and labor market policy 7
Social standards: basic security and minimum wage 7
Labor market: strengthening employment, combating youth unemployment 8
Financial and economic policy 8
Corporations: closing tax loopholes 8
Financial transaction tax: making the financial market more accountable 9
White-collar crime: drying up tax havens, curbing tax evasion 10
Alliance policy 10
European institutions: Strengthening opportunities to have a say 10
Lobbying: limiting the influence of organizations 10
Enlargement policy: a sense of proportion and equal treatment 10
Foreign and trade policy 11
Foreign policy: securing peace, strengthening defense 11
Trade policy: Fair trade relations, not exporting war 11
Environmental protection and energy policy 12
Environmental protection: advancing environmental protection globally, protecting 
resources and the climate 13 Energy policy: strengthening alternative energies, phasing 
out coal power 13
Research and technology policy 13
Research: strengthening innovation, promoting sustainable technologies 13
Digitalization: Protecting individual rights, preventing data monopolies 14
3
EUROPEAN ELECTION PROGRAM 2024
of the Alliance for Innovation & Justice (BIG Party)
Preamble
Dear voters,
For almost 60 years now, European unity has been the guarantor of peace and 
prosperity in Europe. However, the geopolitical developments of recent years present 
the Union with unprecedented challenges and dangers. Great Britain will be the first 
member state to leave the European Union. Right-wing conservative and nationalist 
movements are gaining strength in many European countries and are increasingly 
calling the continued existence of European unification into question with their 
populist and reactionary demands. In some member states, these forces have even 
been elected to government. National interests are once again being placed above 
the European common good, while at the same time the democratic rule of law is 
being eroded by authoritarian means in certain member states. Transatlantic 
relations are in a serious crisis and international trade is increasingly determined by 
protectionism. Wars and humanitarian disasters continue to drive many people 
seeking protection to Europe.
In this critical overall situation, we as the BIG Party are unreservedly committed to 
European unity. The further political weakening of the EU as an economic area will 
inevitably lead to social upheaval in the member states. Social peace can only be 
secured in the long term through social peace. Separatism, division and small 
statehood inevitably lead to territorial conflicts and wars. European history has amply 
demonstrated this.
Being committed to Europe does not mean that grievances within the EU and its 
institutions should not be addressed. Constructive criticism and proposals for renewal 
even become an obligation in order to ensure the continued existence of the 
European Union. This is the only way to effectively counter the widespread 
disenchantment with the EU and nationalist and extremist tendencies.
Europe needs new approaches and ideas. We stand for a European Union in which 
the institutions work transparently for the common good of all EU citizens. All people 
must have an appropriate share in prosperity and social security. Individual 
fundamental and human rights must be guaranteed, regardless of status, origin, 
descent or gender. Global challenges such as migration, climate protection and 
digitalization require sustainable, responsible and ethical concepts.
Give us your vote - for an open, modern and fair Europe, a Europe of diversity, 
equal opportunities and justice!
4
Migration and refugee policy
Europe needs a humane and fair refugee policy. Asylum procedures must be 
simplified and accelerated, and illegal migration must be effectively curbed.
Reform of the Dublin system: faster decisions, fairer distribution 
The Dublin system, according to which refugees must submit their asylum application 
in the country of first arrival, no longer works in its current form. The reception and 
distribution procedures must therefore be fundamentally reformed. We call for 
refugees to be distributed among the member states on the basis of their status. 
Connecting factors such as a previous stay in a Member State or family ties must be 
given priority. If such circumstances do not exist, the distribution must take place 
according to a fair distribution key within the EU countries. In a community, all 
members must meet their obligations; those who violate this principle of solidarity 
must be sanctioned economically, e.g. by the dispersal of funding.
Asylum procedures must also be simplified and accelerated, but with individual legal 
remedies preserved. People who do not have the right to stay are also entitled to 
legal certainty quickly. Family reunions must be carried out more quickly, and 
procedures must focus in particular on applications from minors seeking protection. 
They need special protection and increased care, for example through the provision 
of accompanying persons.
Internal security: strengthen borders, reduce fears 
Internal security is one of the most important concerns of the people in the member 
states. Citizens' fears and irrational ideas must be allayed. Migration is not a threat, 
but a necessity from which society benefits. In view of population growth and the 
rampant shortage of skilled workers, there is no alternative to managed migration. 
Immigrants bring cultural diversity, labor and consumer power to the member states 
and create new social impulses. We must finally put an end to populist politics being 
carried out on the backs of migrants and people seeking protection. Scaremongering, 
agitation and deliberate misinformation divide society and exacerbate EU scepticism.
On the other hand, citizens must also have the feeling that governments are taking 
targeted and consistent action against illegal migration. The external borders must 
therefore be protected even more effectively. Migrants who are required to leave the 
country must be returned to their country of origin, but each case must be examined 
very carefully. Compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights must be 
ensured at all costs. Voluntary departures are
5
Deportations are always preferable, as they are typically associated with hardship. 
Voluntary return can be effectively supported through improved exit counseling. 
Deportations to war zones such as Syria or Afghanistan must be avoided as they 
violate fundamental human rights.
Immigration: promoting participation, ensuring equal opportunities 
The influx of immigrants must not lead to the existing population suffering social 
disadvantages. Where there is competition for societal and social resources, 
immigration will always remain an issue of conflict. Sufficient childcare facilities must 
therefore be created, and the housing market and job creation must be particularly 
promoted. In addition, social entitlements and longer residence rights for immigrants 
should be linked to employment and a minimum length of stay.
But participation must also be further promoted. We need a framework that ensures 
that immigrants learn German quickly. Language courses must be compulsory and 
made available in sufficient numbers. This is the only way to enable access to the 
social environment and the labor market. In addition, the support and accompanying 
programs to promote participation must be further expanded and improved. 
Participation is a task for society as a whole that can only succeed with the efforts of 
all those involved.
Causes of flight: Prevent isolation, create safe living conditions
fen
Europe must not close itself off. In view of Europe's colonial history, there is an 
ethical co-responsibility for the precarious living conditions in many developing 
countries. A protectionist refugee policy is immoral and unworthy of an alliance of 
democratic industrialized countries. Every year, thousands of people seeking 
protection die on their way to Europe, most of them in the Mediterranean. Basic 
human rights oblige us to help these people, without ifs and buts. An EU-wide, 
coordinated system for sea rescue must therefore be installed immediately. Private 
aid organizations must not be harassed and criminalized.
The focus in combating the causes of flight must be on cooperation with third 
countries. Refugee routes must not be closed at all costs; compliance with basic 
human rights and procedural standards must also be guaranteed in third countries. 
Safe living conditions must be created in countries where people make their way to 
Europe due to a lack of social and economic prospects. Development aid and 
economic support must be focused on creating sustainable and humane living 
conditions. This requires in particular
6
fair trade relations in order to keep the markets in third countries competitive.
With your vote you decide in favor of:
¥ A humane and fair refugee policy
¥ Reform of the Dublin system, improved asylum procedures, fair distribution rules
¥ Internal security through stronger borders, effective containment of illegal 
immigration
¥ Socially responsible migration and increased participation efforts
¥ Responsibility for people in need, creating safe living conditions
Anti-discrimination policy
We want an equal Europe in which all citizens are guaranteed equal opportunities and 
all forms of discrimination are effectively combated.
Equal opportunities: quotas for women and early childhood support
Equal access for citizens to all areas of public life is one of the main pillars of a 
democratic society. All people must have the same opportunities to access 
education, the labor market, social services and benefits as well as the housing 
market. Experience shows that although equal opportunities largely exist on paper, 
they are often not implemented accordingly in practice. Much greater legislative 
efforts are required here. For example, women still suffer considerable disadvantages 
in education and employment, especially when it comes to promotion and pay. We 
therefore call for binding quotas for women in public administration and the private 
sector in all member states. Single mothers must also be particularly encouraged and 
supported, as they and their children are most at risk of poverty. The inclusion of 
people with disabilities in all public areas must be further improved. Citizens with a 
migration background must be effectively protected from discrimination when looking 
for work and housing. Early childhood support for children with a migrant background 
is a key factor in ensuring equal starting conditions for school education.
Anti-discrimination: better protection for victims, consistent punishment for 
perpetrators 
The unequal treatment of certain groups of people without cause undermines the 
foundation of social coexistence. We therefore strictly oppose all forms of 
discrimination and racism. The protection of women and girls from sexual violence 
must be further strengthened. State prevention programs must be expanded and 
private counselling services must be better supported. Trafficking in human beings 
for the purpose of sexual exploitation m u s t b e prosecuted throughout Europe and
7
be sanctioned under criminal law. The right to sexual self-determination must be 
guaranteed and protected.
Misanthropy and hatred must be countered at all levels of society. Increasing racism, 
anti-Semitism and Islamophobia are poisoning the social climate in many European 
countries. Morals are increasingly deteriorating and verbal and physical attacks 
against people of other origins or religions are becoming more frequent. We call for a 
social culture of fairness, mutual respect and appreciation as well as responsible and 
dignified interaction with one another. We also call for a transparent and strict 
approach by the criminal investigation and prosecution authorities. Hate crimes must 
not be trivialized and the public must be adequately informed and sensitized. We 
demand an improvement in victim protection, for example through the establishment 
of municipal advice centers.
With your vote you decide in favor of:
¥ Equal opportunities and equal treatment
¥ Strengthening women's rights and early childhood development
¥ Fight against discrimination, racism, hatred and misanthropy
¥ Consistent criminal prosecution and improved victim protection
Social and Labor market policy
Only social justice can secure social peace in the long term. We need binding 
guidelines in the area of basic social security and the minimum wage. Employment 
must be secured and promoted, and youth unemployment must be combated 
effectively.
Social standards: basic security and minimum wage
Lasting peace and fairly distributed prosperity are the greatest promises of European 
unity. Social justice is the cornerstone of social peace. A lack of social security and 
unemployment always lead to social upheaval, which paves the way for extremism 
and anti-democratic sentiment. It must therefore be the top priority of common policy 
to create and enforce minimum social standards in the member states.
These minimum standards include adequate basic security benefits for pensioners. 
People who have worked all their lives must not spend their old age in poverty. A 
universal minimum wage must also be introduced in every Member State. Countries 
such as Italy, Sweden and Austria still have no such provisions. Where regulations 
do exist, there are considerable differences in the level stipulated. We therefore call 
for the swift
8
Creation of binding guidelines for fair and appropriate remuneration in all member 
states.
It will only be possible to harmonize living conditions in the member states in the long 
term if appropriate social standards are laid down. If the differences remain, 
phenomena such as social migration and wage dumping cannot be contained.
Labor market: strengthening employment, combating youth unemployment 
Employment is the foundation of the welfare state. However, employment rates 
currently vary considerably within the member states. While unemployment figures in 
Germany and other central European countries have been falling for years, southern 
and western European countries such as Spain and Italy continue to have major 
problems. This is particularly true in the area of youth unemployment. In Greece and 
Spain, one in three young people is without training or a job. The EU must therefore 
make every effort to improve employment conditions in the problem countries. 
Qualification and support programmes must be expanded and working conditions 
made more flexible. Deregulation must be driven forward and new markets opened 
up.
With your vote you decide in favor of:
¥ Minimum social standards for uniform living conditions
¥ Binding requirements for basic income support and minimum wage
¥ Strengthening employment and combating youth unemployment
Financial and Economic policy
An end to privileges and tax loopholes for large companies. The financial market, 
which has hardly been taxed to date, must finally contribute to the common good in 
an appropriate form. An EU-wide financial transaction tax is overdue.
Corporations: close tax loopholes 
Europe needs fair taxation. While every hard-working citizen and every small or 
medium-sized company pays their taxes on income and profits at their place of work 
as a matter of course, large companies can shift their earnings to low-tax countries 
and pay taxes there. This form of tax dumping must finally be stopped. Corporations 
that generate billions in profits must also pay their taxes where they work and use the 
existing infrastructures. The first steps towards curbing tax avoidance have already 
been taken with an EU directive. However, the regulations are still far from sufficient. 
Taxation regulations must be standardized in the member states and competition law 
must be tightened.
9
to be able to take effective action against the tax avoidance strategies of large 
corporations.
Financial transaction tax: making the financial market more accountable 
As the financial markets have hardly been taxed to date, the introduction of a 
transaction tax for financial transactions is urgently overdue. As early as 2012, 11 
member states agreed in principle to introduce a corresponding financial transaction 
tax across all countries. However, the tax has not yet been implemented as the 
states have been unable to agree on a specific form. This political stalemate must 
finally come to an end. Every year without a tax costs citizens billions of euros. 
According to calculations, the planned moderate financial transaction tax would bring 
in a good 50 billion euros a year for the member states. In view of the fact that the 
EU states supported the financial sector with around 4.6 trillion euros during the 
economic and banking crisis from 2008 to 2010, this tax would only be a drop in the 
ocean. The financial transaction tax must therefore be introduced promptly and set at 
a significantly higher rate. With a tax rate of just 0.5% on trading in shares, annual 
revenues of a good 250 billion euros could be realized. The financial markets must 
finally be held more accountable; those who claim trillions of taxpayers' money in 
times of crisis must also make an appropriate contribution to the common good in 
times of growth.
White-collar crime: draining tax havens, reducing tax evasion
insulate
Every year, the member states of the European Union suffer billions in losses due to 
tax evasion, particularly in the area of VAT. These illegal activities can only be 
countered efficiently by creating a single VAT area within the EU. The Commission's 
efforts to this end must be supported at national level. In addition, efforts to drain tax 
havens must be further expanded. The exchange of information between countries 
on financial accounts needs to be further improved and tax evaders must be 
sanctioned more effectively. Only by curbing illegal money flows can crimes such as 
drug trafficking, terrorist financing and money laundering be effectively combated.
With your vote you decide in favor of:
¥ Tax justice and reduction of privileges for large corporations
¥ A financial transaction tax and more financial responsibility on the part of the 
financial sector
¥ Effective fight against white-collar crime
10
Alliance policy
The disenchantment with the EU and its institutions is largely homemade. Processes 
need to be simplified and made more transparent, and citizens need more 
opportunities to have a say. The influence of lobby associations must be reduced. 
Fair standards must be applied to EU enlargement.
European institutions: Strengthening opportunities to have a say 
More and more people have the impression that the EU has largely withdrawn itself 
from the influence of its citizens. While the influence of business and industry is 
steadily increasing, the participation of citizens seems to be limited to their 
opportunity to vote every four years. It is understandable that people are therefore 
increasingly turning away from the EU and consider its institutions to be corrupt. The 
existing right of the European Citizens' Initiative has hardly been used to date, and 
simplifications are urgently needed here. The procedures must be simplified and the 
bureaucratic hurdles reduced. We call for a reduction in the minimum number of 
supporting signatures, an extension of the collection period and a lowering of the 
participation age to 16. In addition, the Member States must inform citizens better 
about the existing opportunities for participation.
Lobbying: limiting the influence of organizations 
Political and economic power must be clearly separated in Europe. The transparency 
register that has already been introduced is an important step, but it has hardly had 
any effect in its current form. The biggest problem continues to be that participation in 
the register is not mandatory. The data stored there is also largely incorrect and 
incomplete. We are therefore calling for the register to finally be implemented 
effectively. This requires an extension of the scope of application to all EU 
institutions, including the Council of the European Union, the Council of Ministers and 
the permanent representations of the Member States. The verification and 
sanctioning system must be improved so that incorrect data can be tracked down and 
those responsible can be punished. In addition, client protection must be restricted so 
that lobby groups cannot hide behind confidentiality rules. Only by creating a 
comprehensive and robust transparency register will it be possible in the long term to 
effectively prevent undue influence and conflicts of interest in the institutions.
Enlargement policy: a sense of proportion and equal treatment
The enlargement of the European Union is a necessary process, as it secures peace 
and promotes progress and prosperity in Europe. EU accession countries are rightly 
required to meet certain minimum requirements in the areas of the rule of law, 
freedom of the press and the fight against crime and terrorism.
11
the fight against corruption. These accession requirements are precisely defined in 
the Copenhagen criteria. However, negotiations with the countries that have been 
offered the prospect of accession must also be conducted fairly and on an equal 
footing. This applies to the countries of the Western Balkans - Serbia, Albania, 
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro and Macedonia - as well as to Turkey.
With your vote you decide in favor of:
¥ Strengthening citizen participation
¥ Improving transparency and weakening the influence of lobby groups
¥ Solid and fair enlargement policy
Foreign and trade policy
European foreign and defense policy must be geared towards securing peace. Clear 
responses are also needed to the global rise in protectionism. Arms deliveries to 
crisis areas must be consistently prevented. Trade agreements with developing and 
emerging countries must serve economic and social development.
Foreign policy: securing peace, strengthening defense 
The focus of European foreign and defense policy must be on maintaining friendly 
relations with neighbors and securing partnerships. In times when the familiar world 
order is eroding, the EU must take responsibility and defend its values. It would be 
na•ve to think that this could be achieved without modern and effective armed forces. 
Diplomacy is the silver bullet, but it cannot be successfully pursued without a solid 
deterrent. With the United States increasingly loosening its ties with Europe, the 
Union must improve its own defense capabilities. The defense resources of the 
member states do not necessarily have to be increased, but they should be deployed 
in a more targeted manner as part of a European defense strategy.
Trade policy: fair trade relations, not exporting war 
International trade must be based on fairness and be conducted on an equal footing. 
The rise of protectionism and unfair trade practices pose new challenges that must 
be met with a policy of strength. Where diplo- macy and old alliances no longer help, 
new alliances must also be considered.
Trade with emerging and developing countries requires particular sensitivity; the EU 
must not exploit its superior economic position to the detriment of these countries. 
Trade agreements must therefore always be aimed at creating sustainable
12
production and supply conditions in third countries. The demanded complete opening 
of the markets in Africa must be rejected, as the producers there would not be able to 
compete with European suppliers and would inevitably be driven to ruin. The flooding 
of local markets with cheap goods must stop, as must the empty fishing of local 
coastal regions.
Peace is one of the most important achievements of European unification. However, 
securing peace must not only be a central goal within the Community, but also 
outside it. The EU must therefore make every possible effort to contribute to 
international conflict and crisis management. Peace diplomacy is essential for this, 
but the first essential step is to consistently prevent the supply of war equipment to 
crisis regions. All attempts to secure peace are implausible if armaments continue to 
be exported from member states to war zones on a large scale. We therefore call for 
the establishment of a strict EU-wide arms supply control system so that such 
exports can be effectively prevented and violations can be severely sanctioned. The 
Community must also continue to stand up for global nuclear disarmament and limit 
the expansion of autonomous weapons systems.
With your vote you decide in favor of:
¥ Securing peace and strengthening defense capabilities
¥ Fair and sustainable trade relations
¥ Stop arms deliveries to crisis regions
Environmental protection and energy policy
As one of the greatest challenges of our time, climate protection can only be solved 
globally. The cornerstone for this lies in energy policy. Environmentally harmful 
energy sources such as coal must be reduced and alternative energies must be 
consistently promoted.
Environmental protection: Advancing environmental protection globally, 
protecting resources and the climate
Healthy habitats are the basis of human existence. Wherever the earth is exploited 
and natural resources are destroyed, this results in global change. A responsible 
environmental protection policy can therefore not end at the EU's external borders. It 
must be the declared aim of Community policy to ensure that the strict environmental 
protection requirements of the Member States are also enforced globally. Important 
measures in the areas of production, agriculture and mobility are technologically and 
financially costly. Emerging and developing countries must therefore be supported 
economically in the creation of responsible ecological development. Ethical ecology 
also means that economically important resources must be used in a sustainable 
manner.
13
third countries should not be ruthlessly exploited. Similarly, waste disposal and 
recycling problems must not be exported to the third world.
Climate change is the best example of the global impact of human activity. Only with 
the combined efforts and goodwill of all nations can the advancing climate change be 
countered in a promising way. The EU must exhaust all diplomatic and economic 
means to persuade unwilling states to participate in climate protection agreements. 
The Paris climate targets must be strictly pursued and adhered to.
Energy policy: strengthen alternative energies, reduce coal power
The future belongs to alternative and renewable energies; environmentally harmful 
energies must be consistently reduced. Coal energy is harmful to the climate and to 
health. While many European countries are already pursuing a clear exit policy in this 
area, Germany is clinging to this anachronistic form of energy generation. The 
situation is different with nuclear energy. While Germany is implementing the agreed 
phase-out, countries such as France are pushing ahead with the construction of new 
nuclear reactors. We are therefore calling for a uniform European energy directive 
that makes the rapid phase-out of both forms of energy generation mandatory. 
Europe must also continue to emancipate itself in the energy sector and reduce its 
dependence on energy exports.
Research into and the expansion of renewable energies, on the other hand, must 
continue to be driven forward and promoted. On a European basis, this also means 
ensuring consistent availability at a stable price level. Further networking of energy 
supply systems and energy storage structures is required here.
With your vote you decide in favor of:
¥ Global environmental and resource protection
¥ Strengthening renewable energies
Research and Technology policy
Europe must remain competitive. This requires increased efforts in the area of 
research and further development. Digitalization must be shaped responsibly and in 
the interests of the common good.
Research: strengthening innovation, promoting sustainable technologies 
In terms of innovation and development, Europe still has a lot of catching up to do in 
a global comparison. The USA and China continue to set the tone, especially when it 
comes to the development of new technologies. Efforts within the Community must 
be stepped up here in order to avoid f a l l i n g behind in the long term. Funds for 
research and technology development
14
must therefore be significantly increased. There is also a need for better cooperation 
and coordination in important research projects. The support of resource-saving and 
sustainable technologies should be at the forefront of this.
Digitalization: protect individual rights, prevent data monopolies 
The rapidly advancing digital innovation offers people many opportunities, but it also 
harbors risks. We must use the advantages of digitalization in the interests of society, 
for example in the areas of environmental protection, transport planning and labour 
markets. Thanks to improved technologies, the added value of work performance has 
increased many times over in recent years. Where this leads to the loss of necessary 
human resources, social and societal compensation concepts are required. We reject 
digitalization at any price. It must be compatible with society as a whole and must not 
undermine individual rights. Above all, this means preventing the emergence of data 
monopolies. An important step in this direction would be to create universally 
accessible data infrastructures.
With your vote you decide in favor of:
¥ Strengthening innovation and promoting sustainable technologies
¥ Responsible digitalization, prevention of data monopolies
BIG Party - Alliance for 
Innovation & Justice 
backoffice@bigpartei.de 
www.bigpartei.de